CHAPTER 6: CASTLE NAERYTAR TABLE OF CONTENTS CHAPTER 8: CASTLE IN THE CLOUDS
Chapter 7: Hunting Lodge
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 1/25

Characters who follow Wyrmspeaker Rezmir or Azbara Jos with the aid of the teleportation circle in Castle Naerytar’s dungeon are deposited high in the Greypeak
Mountains. The change in climate is very stark; the portal and a nearby lodge are buffeted by chill winds, and the surrounding countryside is heavily forested. The
portal is one of several that predate the Cult of the Dragon, and it helps the cult leaders gather over large distances.
Next to the portal is a hunting lodge used by a succession of local lords over the years. The lodge is a useful and central meeting place for high-ranking cultists, among
them a Wearer of Purple known as Talis the White.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 2/25

Talis feels strongly that she belongs in Severin’s “inner circle,” but Severin doesn’t trust her and recently appointed a dwarf named Varram as his wyrmspeaker in
charge of recovering the White Dragon Mask. The adventurers meet Talis and her servants, and they could end up ﬁghting Talis and her crew in the lodge. They might
also bargain and make a deal with Talis, striking against those who oppose her ascension. If they do the latter, she helps the party reach the nearby village of Parnast
and aboard Skyreach Castle (see chapter 8)—but negotiations are fairly hazardous and might easily result in combat rather than a deal.
If the players don’t realize that the cult hopes to bring Tiamat to the Realms, this chapter is the best time for that information to be revealed or conﬁrmed. Although
Talis won’t mention any details such as masks or summonings, the cultists share a general belief that the time is right for Tiamat’s arrival. The characters can ﬁnd
several clues that encourage this belief.
General Features
The lodge is built in a comfortable but rustic style, and good tapestries and some hunting trophies festoon its rooms. The wooden ﬂoors are heavily scarred by claws.
A successful DC 20 Intelligence (Nature) check reveals that these are not the marks of normal hunting hounds, but rather ambush drakes (see appendix D).
Ceilings. Most hunting lodge ceilings are 8 feet high.
Light. The lodge is not lit except by ﬁreplaces and candles. The interior is dark when the shutters are closed.
Important Nonplayer Characters
The cultists who meet in the lodge come and go around planned gatherings. At the moment, things are in a lull.
Talis
Talis believes she is the rightful bearer of the White Dragon Mask, and that she was deeply wronged when custody of the mask went to her hated rival, the dwarf
Varram, a foolish creature whom Talis considers insultingly incompetent and worthless. She’s been watching the cult’s hoard grow, and she hopes to still make her
move to become a major ﬁgure within the cult hierarchy—certainly she has a lot of support among cultists.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 3/25

Rezmir
Because they are enemies, Rezmir does not warn Talis that attackers might be coming through the portal on her heels, but instead slips off to Skyreach Castle (see
chapter 8) with the intent of letting the adventurers destroy Talis. If the characters slew Rezmir, the lodge’s relative lack of watchfulness is not surprising.
If Rezmir survived the earlier chapter, the half-dragon meets with Captain Othelstan in Parnast to receive a full report on the status of the cult raids and to inform the
captain of the possible arrival of adventurers. Tracking her successfully requires a DC 23 Wisdom (Survival) check. If the adventurers ignore the lodge in favor of
following Rezmir to Parnast, skip to chapter 8.
Trepsin the Troll
This four-armed troll is a demon-worshiper and a fanatical hunter of big game: nothing pleases him so much as bringing blood and bones back to feed his ambush
drakes, or the delightful terror of his more intelligent victims. Trepsin cares mostly about combat and mayhem, but he has found that serving the cult makes combat
and mayhem more likely. He’s very devoted to Talis, and he serves the Cult of the Dragon enthusiastically. His four arms just make it easier to claw, rip, and shred
anything too slow to escape his reach. He terriﬁes the kobolds and the human servants of the lodge.
Through the Gate
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 4/25

The gate from Castle Naerytar closes as soon as the party steps through. The gate cannot be reopened without the proper password.
The portal stands between stone markers (see area 1).
Outside the Lodge
The lodge stands in a forest, among tall pines and in excellent hunting territory. The building can be accessed through the front door, kitchen door, the shuttered
windows (DC 10 Dexterity check or a shutter bangs), or a hole in the moss-covered roof (above area 17) that’s visible from the kennel and stables. Climbing up to the
hole requires a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check.
The drake kennel (area 2) and wyvern stables (area 3) are stone outbuildings located behind the lodge, near a well and a woodpile. Investigating the kennel rouses the
loud hissing and peculiar deep growl of drakes, and is one sure way to get the entire lodge’s attention.
There’s also the peryton nest on the roof (see area 22), directly above area 18.
Outdoor Patrol
Dark pine woods are all around on the slopes of a mountain valley; the air is cold and fresh. Two ancient stones stand to either side of you, and no more than a bowshot ahead along a
path is a large house, with stone on the ground ﬂoor, timbers above. Within sight are more standing stones.
Pine branches shift and sway in a gusting, ﬁtful wind. A squirrel chitters and then falls silent.
This ancient building has a wood and plaster upper ﬂoor over a ﬁeldstone lower ﬂoor. Its shuttered windows are all closed. In places, the roof is overgrown with moss. A single door
stands slightly open. Smoke pours from one of three large chimneys.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 5/25

If the party lingers outside the lodge or explores the woods nearby, it ﬁnds company. Those with a passive Wisdom (Perception) score of 12 or higher are not surprised
by the rush of a group of two trolls and three ambush drakes (see appendix D for statistics) that has been wandering the area. The combat alerts Talis that she has
company. The trolls serve as the lodge’s bouncers, and anyone who is not expected is eaten.
Troll Pursuit
If the party is forced to retreat from the lodge, the four-armed troll Trepsin (see area 2 and the “Four-Armed Troll” sidebar) pursues them and tries to bring at least one
of them back to the lodge for questioning.
1. Portal Stones
This location is not shown on the map.
The magical gate to Castle Naerytar sits between a pair of moss-covered standing stones visible from all the front rooms of the lodge. Three other portals near the
lodge stand between similar stones, and the cultists have re-tuned their destinations to suit their own ends. One of them connects to the distant north (where Talis
visits white dragon allies), one leads to a heavily guarded chamber in Thay, and one leads to the desert of Mulhorand, near a blue dragon’s lair.
These additional portals should not be a major part of the adventure, but they can introduce cultist nonplayer characters coming to “do business at the lodge” if the
characters decide to dawdle at the lodge for many days. Activating any of these portal stones is unlikely without the lore available in distant libraries or in Rath Modar’s
chambers in Skyreach Castle (see chapter 8).
The grooves are Draconic letters that spell out words in Loross, the language of Netheril. They mention the “snowy lands,” an “unquiet swamp of mournful croaking,”
and the lands of the “red sun,” but provide no place names. Over time, the stones have been used to reach many sites within the Realms.
The mossy stones are old and weathered; lichen covers most of their surfaces, but traces of white paint remain in a few of the grooves.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 6/25

2. Hunting Kennel
Opening the door requires a knock spell or a successful DC 20 Strength check; hammering on it brings the occupants over to open it, but they might be a surprise.
When the door opens, read:
The four-armed troll, Trepsin (see the “Four-Armed Troll” sidebar), is asking for the cult’s recognition signal. If the characters don’t know it or just don’t provide it, the
troll attacks.
The kennel contains six ambush drakes (see appendix D for statistics), which the cultists use to track and kill game and intruders. The drakes obey Trepsin as the
leader of their pack.
Trepsin wears a mossy and ﬁlthy cape that he soaks in water from the well; this provides both good camouﬂage and partial protection against ﬁre. The muddy cape
allows him to ignore the ﬁrst 10 points of ﬁre damage from any attack or source.
If the characters investigate the interior of the kennels, they ﬁnd a disturbing altar.
The stone outbuilding has a mossy roof and no windows. The solid oak doors at either end are 9 feet tall; the whole thing resembles a small barn.
The door opens and the smell of rotting ﬂesh wafts out. The creature just inside the door is a four-armed troll in a muddy cloak, holding the leash of a small dragon. “What you want?”
it asks. “Show the sign.”
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 7/25

TREPSIN
The runes are written in Giant. Trepsin is a follower of the demon lord Baphomet, lord of hunters and slayers.
The strange and rusted spear-altar has rotted meat on it as a sacriﬁce to the demon lord.
Treasure
Trepsin keeps some items for himself. These include six ermine pelts (100 gp each), three fox pelts (25 gp
each), and the prize of his collection: a full winter wolf cloak (250 gp) with a mithral clasp in the shape of a
paw used to secure the cloak (750 gp).
3. Stables and Well
The stables sometimes hold a wyvern or three, but they are empty at the moment. The well has a hoist, a bucket, and cold water, and it seems to have been carved
magically through stone. It is otherwise unremarkable.
At the back of the kennels, three boar spears have been lashed together in a rough and strong tripod. An animal
carcass hangs from the tripod by a rope: probably a young boar, though the ﬂies make it hard to tell. Beneath it is a
bowl circled by runes written in blood.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 8/25

Lodge Ground Floor
The lower ﬂoor has heavy, mud-stained carpets and dark wooden walls. These are the common spaces for visitors and for servants. Characters can enter the lodge
through the front door, the kitchen door, or a shuttered window. Opening a shutter without alerting the lodge’s occupants requires a successful DC 12 Dexterity
(Stealth) check.
The lodge is currently empty of most senior cultists other than Talis, who is on the upper ﬂoor (see area 16). She expects only fellow cultists as visitors. Most servants
will expect that friendly visitors are here to see her.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 9/25

MAP 7.1: HUNTING LODGE GROUND FLOOR
VIEW PLAYER VERSION
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 10/25

4. Cloak Room and Guard Post
The guard post to the right of this entryway is unoccupied except when large groups of rival cultists gather. Two small arrow slits make it easy to ﬁre into the entry hall
with three-quarters cover.
5. Small Hall
The heavy carpet near the entryway is stained with the muddy boots of returning hunters. The two demonic statues are gargoyles, and they attack creatures that enter
the hall with weapons drawn.
Treasure
The freestanding suits of elven armor are warded with freezing runes that can be detected with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. Any creature that
touches one of the suits or passes between them must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed saving throw, the creature takes 1d12 cold damage and is
restrained (frozen in place) for 1 minute. The creature may use an action on its turn to make a DC 15 Strength check, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Each suit of plate armor is mounted on a crude wooden stand vaguely shaped like a headless elf. A freezing rune can be remove with dispel magic (DC 15), whereupon
the armor becomes nonmagical.
Just inside the front door is a chamber with pegs and benches for cloaks and boots. A set of rusty spears rests in one corner, held in the claw of a small drake statue.
This central hallway has stairs, large wooden doors, and a set of ﬁne plate armor. Flanking the main entrance are two freestanding suits of elven plate armor, both coated in chipped
green paint. Man-sized demonic statues stand near the base of the stairs.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 11/25

6. Three Hounds Parlor
The armor is a helmed horror disguised by an illusion to appear as ordinary armor. It detects as magical and attacks if disturbed or if commanded to do so by Talis or
someone else wearing purple Cult of the Dragon robes.
Treasure
The tapestry is magical and transports those who step through it into the surrounding forest, about ﬁve miles from the lodge. It often places the travelers near a deer,
mountain goat, or other wild game. The tapestry weighs about 50 pounds and works only when it is hanging on a wall, teleporting creatures to a random location out to
a range of ﬁve miles; it does not work if placed on the ﬂoor like a carpet and loses its magical property if damaged in any way. It is worth 2,500 gp, or 400 gp if it loses
its teleportation property.
7. Kitchen
There is a door out to the drake kennels (area 2) and stables (area 3) here.
The stout beams overhead are stained black with smoke. A comfortable table and chairs, a small wardrobe, and suit of dull black armor stand in the room. A large tapestry shows
three hounds dragging down a white boar, and it shimmers with strange light.
This spacious kitchen is a hive of activity. A large stove against one wall contains a roaring ﬁre with a bubbling stew pot and shanks of venison suspended above it. Strings of onions
and herbs crisscross the ceiling like webs above cluttered tables. Preparing meals are four humans: two men and two women. All are within arm’s reach of boiling water, cleavers, and
knives, and their stares make it quite clear they don’t like company.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 12/25

These four cultists are Talis’s servants. They know how to cook, and they can put up a ﬁght. If attacked, one cultist runs to the drake kennels (area 2) to fetch Trepsin
and his drakes. Those reinforcements arrive 3 rounds later.
8. Pantry
A successful DC 18 Intelligence (Investigation) check reveals a hollow space under the ﬂoorboards that contains a strongbox, inside which is stored the lodge’s ﬁne
dining silver: 24 place settings of butter knife, soup spoon, fork, and dessert spoon—but no knives.
Treasure
The silver is worth 300 gp all told, and it weighs 50 pounds.
9. Basement
They are all shackled with iron chains and malnourished, and two of the captives are clearly whipped and beaten. The cultists captured them and brought them to the
lodge for interrogation.
Craggnor the Dwarf
This pantry is well-stocked with beans, butter, smoked hams, hard biscuits, fresh apples, eggs, sacks of ﬂour, and barrels of ale. There’s enough food here to last a long winter.
The cellar is damp and smells like apples and vinegar. Bags of apples and sacks of potatoes line one wall. Three prisoners are chained along another wall: a dwarf with a chopped and
singed beard, and two humans—a man and a woman. The woman is wounded. Their chains are secured to iron rings, keeping them just out of reach of the food.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 13/25

Craggnor is a member of the cult and a friend of the dwarf Varram the White, the cultist whom Talis hates above all others. She captured Craggnor hoping to learn a
weakness she can exploit, but so far he has resisted various bribes, enchantments, and physical torments. She intends to try a more powerful form of mind-reading
after she can pull together materials.
Miresella
This young woman from Baldur’s Gate came to Parnast with a caravan, stumbled upon the cult’s doings here, and was captured. She is terriﬁed of Talis, who comes
down to beat her and Craggnor from time to time. She has bruises and cuts along her neck and shoulder. Treat her as a human scout with just 1 hit point to start. She’s
grateful to escape but not eager to tangle with the cult unless healed and equipped.
Brother Caemon
This human priest of Amaunator has not been abused, which makes him nervous. He says he arrived here from Hillsfar to the east, as part of a pilgrimage to a shrine
on the coast, and this is why Talis singled him out for good treatment—he’s unlikely to know anything useful.
Brother Caemon suspects that Talis is trying to win him over to the cult, but he also fears that Talis plans to sacriﬁce him as part of a summoning ritual and is trying
the “catch more ﬂies with honey” approach to win his freedom. Talis’s kindness is entirely false, but it might confuse the characters as a red herring. Caemon doesn’t
know much, and he is a bit of a kind-hearted fool.
10. Guest Chamber
This room is ready for guests, but unoccupied. There is nothing of value here.
11. White Stag Parlor
This room is dark and cold. Furnishings include a bed covered with blankets and furs, a small desk with an unlit oil lamp atop it, a washstand, a chamberpot, and a brazier of coals.
The window is shuttered.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 14/25

The metallic bull’s head is a gorgon, and the trophies are all real, though not valuable except as curiosities.
Treasure
The tapestry here is worth about 400 gp, but weighs 40 pounds. Additionally, the griffon’s head does contain something unusual: a stash of two potions of healing.
12. Kobold Servants
The twenty-four kobolds are the lodge’s maids, grooms, and cooks. They work primarily at night. The kobold servants avoid combat, but they spy on every visitor and
report back to Talis if they see anything suspicious.
13. Human Servants
This room is warm and comfortable, with a large ﬁreplace, stuffed leather chairs, and a table set with smoked sausages and candles. A tapestry displays a magniﬁcent white stag
above a valley, with a pair of green dragons soaring overhead and deer, boars, and hedgehogs hiding among the leaves and trees below.
The walls each have a trophy or two, including two ﬁne mountain goat heads, an elk’s head with a 10-point rack, a giant eagle’s head and talons, a metallic bull’s head, a griffon’s head
and foreclaws, and the head of a white-furred boar with tusks as long as daggers. The room seems otherwise deserted.
A foul odor permeates this unfurnished room, which is ﬁlled with more than twenty kobolds, half sleeping and half awake.
This room contains three beds and a simple writing desk. The room smells clean, and the ﬂoorboards are swept spotless.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 15/25

Three human servants (commoners) sleep here when they are not working as the lodge’s waiters and greeters. They were hired by the lodge’s prior owner, one Lord
Marsten, a noble slain by the cult. They are conﬁned to this chamber when not serving Talis. These resentful servants are the chief butler Gastyn, head maid Arlaenga,
and former chief hunter and now chief groom Angrath Woodwise. They resent the cultists, especially Trepsin the troll.
The human servants avoid combat, but they spy on every visitor. Arlaenga is trying to ingratiate herself, and she reports back to Talis if she sees anything suspicious.
The servants are willing to tell the adventurers about the troll in the kennels (area 2) and the room where the whole cult comes to plot (area 20). They also know that
the perytons can be placated with food (area 22), and that the cult keeps a valuable banner in the linens (area 15). Most of all, though, they say they’ve seen “a castle in
the sky near Parnast.”
14. Bath
This small chamber has a large bathtub in it. The lower bath doubles as a laundry for the servants to wash linens, bedding, and so forth.
15. Linens
There’s nothing of exceptional value here, but one of the banners has ﬁve stripes colored black, blue, green, red, and white, respectively. The banner is meant to be
ﬂown on a lance or spear as a signal when approaching Skyreach Castle, to show that the bearer is friendly. Any captured cultist can explain the banner’s purpose.
Lodge Upper Floor
The second ﬂoor includes sleeping quarters for guests, the armory, a feast hall used for cult gatherings, and Talis’s private room.
This room is stacked with blankets, sheets, various animal furs, tablecloths, ﬂags, banners, and rolled-up rugs.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 16/25

MAP 7.2: HUNTING LODGE UPPER FLOOR
VIEW PLAYER VERSION
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 17/25

16. Talis’s Hall
This encounter is the classic scene where the villain explains herself if the players are willing to pause. In combat, Talis the White (see appendix D for statistics)
stands behind her bodyguards and uses a wand of winter (see appendix C). Talis’s bodyguards include two human veterans named Maelgot and Sorvic, and a
dragonclaw (see appendix D) named Kusphia. If Talis is slain, the veterans surrender, but Kusphia ﬁghts to the death to avenge her slain mistress.
Talis expects to meet some co-conspirators at the lodge to discuss various matters of her own ascendancy in the ranks. If the characters can be turned to her
advantage, she would much rather send them against her rival than ﬁght them. At the same time, she knows she cannot be seen as disloyal to the cult’s interests.
Negotiating with Talis. Talis is wary of the characters but offers them hospitality to see whether they might be useful tools. An observer will note that she is polite but
not warm. She is clearly looking for something.
What Talis Wants. Talis wants to move up in the ranks by causing her rivals to fail spectacularly.
What Talis Offers. She urges the characters to thwart the transport of a large treasure hoard. Cultists under Rezmir’s command are using a cloud giant’s ﬂying castle to
expedite the delivery. Talis offers to help the characters get aboard Skyreach Castle before it departs (see chapter 8) and provides them with a banner (see area 15)
and a useful pass-phrase (“Tiamat, our Mother and Strength”) that will allow them to reach the castle unharmed.
Accepting the Deal. If the party accepts the deal, Talis prefers to remain behind so that she can use her magic to check on them from time to time. If the characters
insist that she join them, she acquiesces but might turn against them depending on how events play out in Skyreach Castle.
Rejecting the Deal. Refusing Talis’s generous offer triggers a ﬁght. Talis shouts for reinforcements, which brings the gargoyles from area 5, the helmed horror from
area 6, and the kobolds from area 12 running, and even yells out the window for Trepsin the troll. Pull out all the stops—and if things go badly, Talis climbs out a
What looks to be a well-appointed chamber is ﬁlled with furniture and can serve as a place to eat food or discuss important matters. Three men in the room wear scale mail and carry
swords; a woman wears robes over white scale mail, and she holds a wand set with a blue gemstone. “Welcome. I consider you to be my guests. Perhaps we can do business.”
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 18/25

TALIS THE WHITE
window and ﬂees into the woods or through a portal (see area 1).
Talis Surrenders
Talis is not a to-the-death sort of villain; she is a survivor and willing to surrender and ask for mercy. Indeed,
she uses her rivalry and her recent setbacks within the cult hierarchy to paint herself as a “disgruntled cultist”
who is perhaps not eager but willing to provide information.
If the characters accept her surrender, she shares the following information as long as the character
questioning her continues to make a sequence of successful DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) rolls. Once a roll
is failed, she clams up—at least until she is bribed, threatened, or offered other information in exchange.
Talis identiﬁes the ﬁve leaders of the cult as “wyrmspeakers,” each of whom has an aﬃnity for a
particular kind of chromatic dragon. The leaders’ names are Severin the Red, Galvan the Blue, Neronvain
the Green, Rezmir the Black, and Varram the White.
She explains the signiﬁcance of the banner in area 15 and reveals the various cult signs and signals
(see the sidebar at the start of the chapter).
If that is not suﬃcient, she tells them that the cult has an enormous hoard of valuables in a ﬂying castle
hidden nearby—but not for long. If pressed for details, Talis reveals that castle belongs to a cloud giant
allied with the cult. The castle, she says, is hidden near the village of Parnast, which is under the cult’s
control.
If all that is not enough, she tells the party, in glowing and worshipful tones, that a great white dragon
inhabits the castle. She refers to the dragon as “snow-white Glazhael, the Cloudchaser, a handsome
dragon of the pure northern breed.” She sounds like a fanatic when discussing dragonkind.
She doesn’t know much about the Red Wizards but reveals that a Red Wizard liaison has been sent to help arrange the hoard’s transport to the cult’s
headquarters.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 19/25

She might be willing to tell the party the cult and its allies are building an army in the Sunset Mountains far to the south, in anticipation of Tiamat’s arrival.
17. Armory
A search of the shelves and weapon rack yields a longsword, a box of 20 crossbow bolts, a box of 10 arrows, three spears, and a net. The cabinet is unlocked and
contains two heavy crossbows and two longbows.
Treasure
One of the rusty spears is decorated with inlaid mithral (50 gp), and another, named Dragongleam, is enchanted with 10 charges of a daylight spell for use in twilight or
dark forest underbrush. The command phrase is “Tiamat’s eyes shine,” written in Draconic runes on the spear’s cross guard.
18. Talis’s Bedchamber
Treasure
Talis keeps a locked chest in this room and she carries the only key. It can also be opened by a character using thieves’ tools with a successful DC 21 Dexterity check.
When opened, light spills out from the +1 chain mail within it. The armor’s light also shines on the chest’s 4,000 gp and a spell scroll of scorching ray.
The two veterans carry 20 gp each, and Kusphia carries a symbol of the cult worked in silver worth 40 gp.
A gaping hole in the roof exposes this armory to the elements. Few weapons are stored here at present. Shelves to the north lie mostly bare, and a poorly maintained weapon rack
standing against the south wall holds three rusty spears and a frayed net. Nearby is a closed cabinet.
An enormous bed is covered in a soft burgundy bedspread, and a ﬁre crackles in the ﬁreplace, lending the room warmth and an atmosphere of comfort.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 20/25

19. Bodyguards’ Chamber
The veterans who serve Talis have taken these well-furnished quarters for their own: they are Maelgot, Sorvic, and Wessic the Wizened. Wessic, a human veteran of
sixty years, is resting here the ﬁrst time the characters show up; the others are in area 16. Wessic sleeps in his armor and keeps his weapon stowed under his bed,
within easy reach. If awakened, he ﬁghts ﬁercely and shouts loudly for help; this usually brings Talis and the other guards, but not the Trepsin the troll or the lodge’s
human and kobold servants. If reduced to half his hit points, he attempts to surrender.
Treasure
Most of the wine bottles are empty, but the twelve full ones that remain are worth 15 gp each. In addition, one of the empty bottles contains a stolen gold necklace
worth 250 gp.
20. Queen of Dragons Chamber
Once a feast hall, this room is now set aside for cult gatherings and is currently unoccupied. A set of double doors in the north wall pulls open to reveal a stone balcony
overlooking the stables, kennel, and well (see areas 2 and 3 for details).
The shutters are open, allowing light to shine in. Four unmade beds line the south wall, and other furnishings include a table with four chairs and a wine rack containing a multitude of
bottles, most of them uncorked and empty.
A roaring ﬁreplace churns out heat and light at one end of this spacious, 30-foot-high chamber, the ceiling of which is buttressed by ten wooden pillars carved as dragons. Five large
tapestries hang along the walls—two on the west wall ﬂanking a door, two on the east wall hanging side by side, and a particularly grand one dominating the south wall next to the
ﬁreplace.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 21/25

Tapestries
Four of the ﬁve tapestries each show dragons hunting, killing, and feasting on lesser creatures, with blue dragons attacking a desert caravan, elves succumbing to a
green dragon’s gaseous breath weapon, a red dragon burning down what might be the Castle Ward of Waterdeep, and a black and white dragon circling over a cold
swamp dotted with ruins. Each is worth at least 500 gp to the right buyer, but each also weighs about 75 pounds and is extremely cumbersome.
The ﬁfth tapestry shows Tiamat, the queen of evil dragons, in all her glory, crowned in gold and silver, and worked with gemstones and gold and silver thread. Fully 35
feet wide and 20 feet tall, it shows Tiamat crushing cities and surrounded by adoring followers. The tapestry weighs about 200 pounds and is worth 2,500 gp. Simply
removing the semiprecious stones provides garnets, agates, moonstones, and others worth about 800 gp.
Close examination of the tapestries and a successful DC 20 Intelligence (History) check reveals their locations in the Sword Coast region. The blue dragons are
attacking a caravan crossing the desert of Anauroch, the white and black dragons are circling above the Mere of Dead Men, the red dragon is near Waterdeep, and the
green dragon is clearly rampaging among the High Forest elves, based on the mountains in the background. Tiamat herself is shown with what are clearly Waterdeep,
Neverwinter, and Baldur’s Gate in her claws.
Secret Door
The outline of a hidden door can be found with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. The door opens into the trophy room (area 21).
21. Trophy Room
This is very much a hunter’s bragging room.
Secret Door
Three open windows let in light and air; the room’s walls are adorned with stuffed animal heads, including a large 14-point stag, a mountain goat, a bear, two winter wolves, and what
can only be an ankheg’s head. Two tattered banners hang from the ceiling, and two leather chairs and a handful of braziers complete the comfortable parlor.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 22/25

A secret door can be discovered between the eastern tapestries with a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check. The door is cunningly hidden among the room’s
wooden panels, and pulls open to reveal area 20. It can also be discovered by pulling on the edge of the wood panel between the tapestries.
22. Peryton Roost
This location is not shown on the map.
The nest abuts a chimney that leads down to Talis’s bedchamber (area 18) and belongs to a mated pair of perytons. Several times during the day, the perytons leave
their nest to hunt for food. There’s a 50 percent chance that the nest is empty during the day; at night, both perytons are roosting here.
The perytons are allies of the cult and have a clear view of the portals in front of the lodge (area 1). They cannot see the stables or kennels (areas 2 and 3) from the
nest.
Combat on the Rooftop
The nest provides reasonable traction and a good perch for the perytons, but the sloped roof is tricky to stand on. At the start of its turn or whenever it takes damage, a
creature standing on the roof must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed saving throw, the creature falls prone on the roof; if the saving throw fails by
5 or more, the creature slips and falls off the roof, taking 2d6 bludgeoning damage and landing prone on the ground.
Treasure
The nest contains bones, old bits of armor, a punctured helmet, and other detritus. Digging around for 1 minute or more also reveals two treasures: an ancient arrow-
catching shield and a bag of tarnished silverware worth 100 gp.
This large nest on the roof is made of woven sticks, leaves, and feathers intermingled with the sun-bleached bones of sizable animals: deer, bear, or mountain goat, perhaps.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 23/25

Traveling to Parnast
If you are using the milestone experience rule, the characters reach 7th level after
clearing out the hunting lodge and either defeating Talis or forging a tenuous
alliance with her.
Walking to Parnast
The village of Parnast and the castle is a ﬁve-mile hike from the lodge, on the far
side of the mountain, through forested hills, over logs and rushing creeks, and
along muddy trails. It’s at least a half day’s walk.
Missing the Castle
If the characters kill Talis and all her servants and guardians, there’s no one to tell
the characters about Skyreach Castle, and the party may well delay too long
healing up or investigating the lodge. Consider leaving a paper trail in Talis’s
personal effects, or have a villager (most villagers are cultists) show up at the
lodge with a delivery of food and supplies.
DRAGONCLAW
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 24/25

Our Terms of Service and Privacy Notice have recently been updated to provide greater clarity as to how disputes are handled and transparency regarding the
collection and use of personal data. Please review them here: Terms of Service, Privacy Notice. By continuing to use the services, you agree to the new Terms.
SUPPORT
Help Portal
Support Forum
System Status
Do Not Sell or Share My
Personal Information
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Notice
System Reference Document
(SRD)
ABOUT
Contact Us
Careers
Wizards of the Coast
FIND US ON SOCIAL MEDIA
 DOWNLOAD THE D&D BEYOND APP
© 2017-2026 WIZARDS OF THE COAST LLC | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Dungeons & Dragons, D&D Beyond, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, the dragon ampersand, and all other Wizards of the Coast product names, campaign settings,
their respective logos, and The World's Greatest Roleplaying Game are © and trademark Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. © 2026
Wizards.
PRIVACY POLICY TERMS OF SERVICE
24/03/2026, 08:41 Hunting Lodge - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/hunting-lodge 25/25