CHAPTER 7: HUNTING LODGE TABLE OF CONTENTS CHAPTER 9: COUNCIL OF WATERDEEP
Chapter 8: Castle in the Clouds
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 1/39

The cult has acquired a friendly roost in Skyreach Castle, a ﬂying fortress built by cloud giants. This castle is docked near the village of Parnast and guarded by mists,
magic, and monsters. The fortress contains much of the treasure and valuables that the cult has looted from the surrounding region—treasure that will be added to an
even more monstrous hoard at the Well of Dragons, where the cult plans to summon forth Tiamat.
By the time the characters arrive in the village, Rezmir has already announced that the fortress must be made ready for departure. Characters should have time to deal
with Talis and possibly other cultists before it takes to the sky.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 2/39

The characters must be smart in how they tackle storming the castle—it’s clearly a well-fortiﬁed place. They also can’t wait too long. If the characters tarry, Skyreach
Castle leaves to pick up more treasure from another lair of the cult. The exact moment when it takes ﬂight is up to you as DM.
If Talis is with the party, she can use her rank and inﬂuence to get the characters safely to Skyreach Castle, but once inside, she cannot guarantee their safety and, in
fact, turns against them at the earliest opportunity. Characters should be at or near 8th level by the end of this chapter.
Parnast
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 3/39

24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 4/39

MAP 8.1: PARNAST
VIEW PLAYER VERSION
1. Village of Parnast
This small village is secretly under the control of the Cult of the Dragon. The cultists load and unload goods here, and some of those goods are sent to Talis’s hunting
lodge (see chapter 7).
Cultists posing as villagers are unfriendly toward visitors, while villagers under the cult’s sway remain silent and withdraw from visitors for fear of incurring the cult’s
wrath.
If the characters demand to speak with someone in charge, they are directed to Captain Othelstan (see appendix D for statistics) but are also warned that he has no
time or patience for dealing with outlaws.
The village has a few dozen houses and a small square, with buildings that include a tavern, a stable, and a shrine. In contrast to this rustic burg stands a mighty ice castle half hidden
in a fog-shrouded ravine: walls stand forty feet high, huge narrow towers loom upward—one of blue ice, one crumbling—and all of it is built to a scale for giants. Wisps of fog hide
much of the castle’s detail, but you see two statues standing just before the enormous gate.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 5/39

CAPTAIN OTHELSTAN
Rumors and Information
Laborers, porters, craftsfolk, and cultists live and work in the village, and although they are reluctant to talk, they can be bribed, charmed, or talked around with a
successful DC 18 Charisma (Persuasion) check. The following bits of information are available, one for each success, and should be doled out in the order presented
below.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 6/39

The highest-ranking member of the cult to frequent Parnast is the half-dragon, Wyrmspeaker Rezmir. (If she is still alive and free, Rezmir has gone into hiding.
No one in the village knows where she is, although they claim that Skyreach Castle is the most likely place to ﬁnd her.)
Rezmir’s deputy is a cult veteran and dragonsoul name Captain Othelstan. He commands the cult forces in Parnast, and he monitors all visitors and
merchandise passing through the village.
The cult has controlled Parnast for more than a year, and it basically brought in a company of thugs to take over.
Some villagers were already cult inﬁltrators, and others signed up when it became clear that the cultists are rich and have a private army.
The cultists keep trained wyverns in the village stables. The cultists use them to reach the castle while it is airborne. (No one in the village, including Captain
Othelstan, knows where the castle goes after it leaves Parnast.)
Characters can also learn one of two pass-phrases for safely entering for the castle from Gundalin or anyone who becomes a friendly helper to them: “Tiamat,
Our Mother and Strength” or “Hail Blagothkus.”
2. The Golden Tankard
A yellow tankard hangs over the door of this rustic tavern. Inside, though, the place is short on cheer. All conversation stops and all eyes turn in your direction. A tall, heavyset man
with enormous muttonchop sideburns steps forward and asks, “What can I get you travelers?”
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 7/39

A visitor can buy a mug of beer for 3 cp or a mug of strong mead for 1 sp. There’s sausage on the menu as well as stewed cabbage and heavy black bread (4 cp for a
plate full), but no one visits for the ﬁne dining. It’s just enough to keep a visitor going another day, and no more than that.
If the characters sit and order ale, well and good.
The owner is Raggnar Redtooth, who seems friendly enough but secretly takes bribes from the Cult of the Dragon. Strangers are never really welcome in his tavern, but
they get service while he informs Captain Othelstan by sending a messenger. Raggnar has a violent past and is treated as an unarmored veteran (AC 10). He keeps his
weapons behind the bar.
Prying information from Raggnar and his clientele is diﬃcult. The villagers want to keep the characters occupied, and they ask for them to tell tales of their journey,
they inquire about the characters’ families and where they are from, and they query how the party got here.
If asked about a place to sleep, Raggnar makes it clear that he isn’t an innkeeper: there are no beds or rooms, and even the stable is full. If anyone asks why, he gives
his usual excuse: “Lord Marsten and his entourage are coming to hunt. All the servants are making things ready for their arrival.” (This is pure nonsense, of course—he
has no rooms other than his own.) If the characters just wait a moment, Raggnar says he will offer them his own chambers, for a steep fee of 10 gp. “I’ll clear out a few
things and it is all yours.” This is also a stalling tactic, though he’ll certainly take the money.
Because the cultists are about to ship a castle full of treasure from the village, they desperately don’t want the characters to ﬁnd anything suspicious, such as wagons
loaded with chests (there’s no room to hide a caravan in a village this small) or their wyvern mounts in the stables (see area 3). If Raggnar can keep the characters
eating and drinking and gossiping, then Skyreach Castle can slip away into the sky.
Treasure
The Golden Tankard takes its name from a magic item that Raggnar found years ago: a splendidly decorated golden stein. This is a tankard of plenty (see appendix C).
“I will send the pot boy out to you in a moment with the ﬁnest available in my humble tavern.” He goes toward the kitchen, bellowing for a cask.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 8/39

3. The Stable
If the characters ask around, the villagers claim that the stable was put out of business some time ago. Anyone listening carefully hears a bellowing noise, though (no
check required). The cult keeps two wyverns in the stable; sometimes, they unleash a wyvern-sized roar.
Cracked sheep bones and a few ox skulls cover the stable ﬂoor. Other than riding harnesses for the wyverns, there is no treasure here.
Developments
The characters can try to equip the wyverns with harnesses and ride them as aerial mounts; see the “Wyvern Riding and Castle Catching” sidebar for details. If they
steal one or both wyverns from under the Cult of the Dragon’s nose, divide 4,000 XP evenly among the characters—more than what they would receive for slaying the
wyverns.
The two big doors leading into the stable are sealed, and the place looks shuttered.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 9/39

4. Shrine of Axes
A statue of Angharradh, an obscure elven deity representing spring, stands among statues of gods representing the other seasons, namely Auril (winter), Chauntea
(summer), and Mielikki (autumn). Angharradh’s statue has been defaced by having her face and hands chopped away. A dead squirrel has been left at Auril’s feet.
The statue of Mielikki is not only freshly painted but also has a set of small cups, bits of bread, and other small sacriﬁces at its feet.
5. Village Well and Square
Timber merchants, woodsfolk, and others haggle over the ﬁner lumber here, and wagons carry supplies. See areas 2, 3, and 4 for more information about the tavern,
the stable, and the shrine.
The well is 40 feet deep, cold, and pure. Five human guards loyal to the Cult of the Dragon keep an eye out here at all times, making sure that villagers do as they are
told. If the guards are confronted, one runs to fetch Captain Othelstan as the villagers ﬂee. Only the wheelwright Gundalin sticks around to watch, and even he does so
from behind a heavy wooden oxcart.
This wooden building is a shrine for woodcutters, and it combines several gods under one roof.
A well stands at the center of the village square. Four buildings surround it: an empty shrine, a wheelwright’s shop, a tavern, and a stable.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 10/39

Skyreach Castle
Eons ago, cloud giants built this ﬂying fortress to take their ancient battle against dragonkind into the skies. The spirit of a giant enables it to ﬂy—this ancient bond
dates back to the days when giants and dragons fought great wars. The binding kept dragons from taking these castles for their own, and the bond still holds centuries
later.
The cult has struck a bargain with the castle’s owner, a cloud giant named Blagothkus who harbors no particular hatred of dragonkind (or anything else, for that
matter). The spirit of his deceased wife, Esclarotta, controls the castle’s propulsion and buoyancy. The cult cannot afford to alienate Blagothkus, because the castle’s
spirit will not obey them.
Skyreach Castle is carved from ice so thick as to be opaque. The ice is as strong and impenetrable as granite, thanks to ancient cloud giant wizardry. Towers and walls
surround an iceberg core that’s been hollowed out to serve as the lair of a powerful white dragon allied with the cult. The whole thing can be hidden under a veil of fog
and cloud, or set to move slowly with the wind. See area 19 for details.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 11/39

General Features
The castle is carved from opaque ice magically reinforced to be as hard as stone. While on the ground, the castle rests in a wide ravine on the outskirts of Parnast.
Everything in the ravine is heavily obscured by fog, so the characters can approach the castle without being seen by its inhabitants. Until the castle takes ﬂight, cultists
and guards from the village deliver wagons laden with supplies and treasure to the castle’s main gate (see area 6 for details).
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 12/39

24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 13/39

MAP 8.2: SKYREACH CASTLE
VIEW PLAYER VERSION
Ceilings. All castle ceilings are 30 feet tall to accommodate the cloud giants who built it.
Doors. All doors in the castle are made of 1-foot-thick ice as hard and tough as stone, but only half the weight. They are ﬁtted with iron hinges and handles, and sized
for giants. A normal door is 20 feet tall, 8 feet wide, and has its handles situated 10 feet above ﬂoor level.
Important Nonplayer Characters
Skyreach Castle is home to the cloud giant Blagothkus, a pair of stone giants named Wiglof and Hulde (allies of the cloud giant), Wyrmspeaker Rezmir of the Cult of
the Dragon, two Red Wizards of Thay (Rath Modar and Azbara Jos), a vampire named Sandesyl Morgia, and an adult white dragon named Glazhael the Cloudchaser.
These adversaries do not entirely trust one another and are unlikely to present a uniﬁed front against the characters. Instead, the giants ﬁght to defend their home, and
the cultists and dragon ﬁght to defend their treasure. If the characters play their hand wisely, this lack of trust will be the villains’ undoing. The NPCs have dozens of
servants, cultists, and guards at their disposal. If more than one or two of these turn up dead, the cultists search the castle for the killers.
Negotiating with the Cloud Giant
Blagothkus the cloud giant is not a particularly enthusiastic supporter of the Cult of the Dragon, but he sees it as a way to stir his fellow giants out of their
complacency and into action.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 14/39

Blagothkus thinks giants have grown soft, and thrashing some dragons would be good for giantkind. So, he plays along with the cult, but on the side he is gathering
support among giants, urging them to assume their rightful place as lords of the world. He believes that the rise of Tiamat and the threat of a dragon empire will spur
the giants to unite.
Blagothkus has no conﬂict with “small folk.” He’ll happily let the party know that yes, his castle is transporting a vast amount of treasure to the Well of Dragons, where
the cult is gathering its forces and amassing a hoard in anticipation of the Tiamat’s arrival (from where he doesn’t know). If the characters want to help him ﬁght
cultists, he’ll happily take them somewhere more interesting up north, where he’s massing his own small army to ﬁght the dragons after they have been lured out into
the open. This army is further detailed in The Rise of Tiamat.
6. Main Gate
Prior to the castle taking ﬂight and leaving Parnast, the cult moves a few wagons laden with treasure chests and supplies into the lower courtyard and unloads them
every hour or two during daylight. Adventurers within earshot of the gate who listen closely can also hear the password spoken as each cart passes by.
The supply carts provide a way for the party to enter the castle undetected. Cultists haul the supplies to the kitchen (area 15) and carry the treasure chests down to the
dragon’s main hoard chamber (area 25).
Walls and Aerial Defenses
The castle walls are carved from solid ice and possess the resiliency and texture of stone. The walls provide a great defense against attacks from the ground. While
the castle is airborne, the walls also keep those within from falling to their deaths, and they block the wind.
A lowered drawbridge spans a foggy moat. Beyond the drawbridge is an open portcullis, and beyond the portcullis is a covered gateway leading to an open courtyard. Large ﬁgures
loom in the gateway, but you can’t quite make them out.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 15/39

By Day. Three ogres stand guard atop each gate tower (see area 6B). They can shout for reinforcements, which come from areas 9, 10, and 15. Rezmir and her guard
drakes (see area 11) arrive three rounds later. The lower courtyard is clear of fog during daylight hours.
At Night. In addition to the ogres standing watch (see above), the vampire Sandesyl Morgia patrols the lower courtyard, which is heavily obscured by thick fog at night,
and the upper courtyard, which is lightly obscured at night. As long as the vampire is on patrol, cultists and kobolds steer clear of the courtyards.
6A. Gateway and Golems
The winches that raise and lower the drawbridge and portcullis are located in the nearby gate towers; see area 6B for details.
The two statues ﬂanking the portcullis inside the gateway are Huge but otherwise have the statistics of stone golems. Anyone who passes through the gateway
without speaking the correct pass-phrase (“Tiamat, Our Mother and Strength” or “Hail Blagothkus”) activates one of the golems. If another creature attempts to pass
through without speaking the pass-phrase, the second golem attacks. Only a cloud giant can command the golems to return to their posts once activated.
6B. Gate Towers
Three ogres stand atop each tower. Although the ogres are equipped with javelins, they can also ﬁre their javelins from a large ballista on the roof each tower.
Tower Rooftops
A heavy oak-and-iron portcullis is drawn up just behind the drawbridge. Two life-sized statues of 18-foot-tall cloud giants—one male and one female—stand behind the portcullis,
facing each other within the covered gateway.
These two gate towers are not the same height. The one to the left of the drawbridge is 120 feet tall, while the one to the right of the drawbridge is 80 feet tall.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 16/39

It takes one action to load and ﬁre a ballista, and a ballista can be ﬁred only once in a given round. An ogre ﬁring a javelin from a ballista makes the following attack
instead of its regular javelin attack.
Each ballista has AC 10, hp 50, and immunity to poison and psychic damage.
Tower Interiors
A large trapdoor in the roof of each tower can be pulled open to reveal a staircase of ice that hugs the tower interior and spirals all the way down to the tower’s ground
ﬂoor, where there’s a single unlocked, giant-sized door leading to the lower courtyard (area 7) or the cultist barracks (area 9).
The winch that raises and lowers the drawbridge is located on the ground ﬂoor of the northern tower, while the winch for the portcullis is located in the ground ﬂoor of
the other. Each winch is manned by one ogre, and each ogre has strict orders to guard its winch and not leave its tower even if the general alarm sounds. Turning the
crank on a winch is an action and requires a successful DC 15 Strength check, and each action spent turning a crank either half-raises or half-lowers the drawbridge or
portcullis. (Two actions are required to fully raise or lower either barrier.)
7. Lower Courtyard
The upper courtyard (area 16) partially overhangs the lower courtyard, held aloft by gigantic arches of ice. At night, the lower courtyard is heavily obscured by fog to a
height of 40 feet—the same height as the walls that enclose it.
Javelin. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 120 ft./480 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (3d8) piercing damage.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 17/39

Add the following if one or more characters succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom (Perception) check:
Combat here alerts the ogres in area 6, the cultists in area 9, the stone giants in area 10, and the kobolds in area 15. One of the cultists runs to area 11 and alerts
Rezmir, who arrives with her guard drakes three rounds later.
Spiral Staircase
A spiral staircase of sculpted ice connects the upper and lower courtyards, as well as the tunnels leading to the main vault where the dragon lairs (area 25). The
staircase’s spiraling steps are coated with crunchy frost and cannot be climbed quietly, nor are they slippery.
8. Stables
The double doors to the stables are 20 feet tall and wide, making it easy for the wyverns (see below) to get in and out.
This outbuilding currently holds two wyverns trained as aerial mounts. However, they are hungry and attack anyone they don’t recognize.
Treasure
Walls of solid ice enclose this courtyard. Another courtyard partially overhangs this one. It is held aloft by sweeping arches of ice that soar to a height of over 100 feet. Doors of
sculpted ice ﬁtted with iron hinges lead to various outbuildings and main keep on the far side of the courtyard from the gate towers.
Hidden in the shadows of the overhanging courtyard, across from the main gate, is an opening in one wall that leads to a spiral staircase made of sculpted ice.
The place stinks of some kind of droppings and rotted ﬂesh. Cracked bones cover the ﬂoor. Two wyverns stride into view with their fangs bared and tails lashing.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 18/39

Four ﬁne wyvern bridles are kept here, embellished with jade and with mithral bits (worth 500 gp each).
9. Cultist Barracks
The barracks smell of unwashed bedclothes, and the chamber contains fourteen fur-covered beds, as well as several chests of clothing, a table and chairs, and other
simple furnishings.
At any given time, ten dragonwings (see appendix D for statistics) are resting here. Half of them are sound asleep, while the other half are awake but doing nothing
overly strenuous. They do not roam the castle unless an alarm has sounded, they hear combat in the courtyard, or the ogres at the gate yell for reinforcements.
10. Stone Giants’ Chamber
Two 20-foot-tall, 8-foot-wide archways connect this chamber to the lower courtyard. Any loud disturbance in the courtyard alerts the stone giants that dwell here.
If an alarm has not been raised and the stone giants are present, add:
If the castle alarms have not sounded, the characters gain a surprise round.
In the middle of this frost-glazed room stands a nine-foot-tall table of carved stone surrounded by three giant-sized chairs, also carved from stone. A fat iron cauldron etched with
runes rests upon the table. On the ﬂoor in the far corner sits a large iron chest.
A male stone giant gazes into the cauldron while a female stone giant sits nearby.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 19/39

The two stone giants, Wiglof and Hulda, are guests of the cloud giant. They are worried that Blagothkus’s attempts to incite the giants into action against the dragons
could lead to devastating consequences, but they are supportive nonetheless. They have agreed to help Blagothkus repair damage to the castle and gladly aid in its
defense.
Presently, Wiglof is using a magic cauldron (see “Treasure” below) to perform an augury ritual and hopes to ascertain the most likely outcome of Blagothkus’s alliance
with the Cult of the Dragon, to either conﬁrm or assuage the cloud giant’s fears that the cult is planning to betray him. Any attack launched against Wiglof disrupts his
ritual and angers him greatly. Hulda is Wiglof’s companion and bodyguard, and any hostility directed at her or Wiglof is met with brutal force.
The stone giants know that the ﬂying castle is controlled from a steering tower (area 19) accessible from the upper courtyard, and that only giants can gain entry to the
tower.
Treasure
The stone giants collect small-but-perfect gemstones, primarily amethysts but also diamonds, opals, rubies, and topaz. Their collection is secured by a magical globe
of force inside an iron chest, which is six feet long, four feet tall and wide, and weighs 500 pounds. Lifting the heavy iron lid requires an action and a DC 12 Strength
check, and destroying the globe of force requires an antimagic ﬁeld or a successful casting of dispel magic (DC 16). The 32 gems are worth 500 gp each, or a total of
16,000 gp. The iron chest also contains the stone giants’ masonry tools, but they are neither valuable nor usable by smaller creatures.
The iron cauldron weighs 50 pounds. When ﬁlled with water or some other liquid, the cauldron substitutes for the normal material components needed to cast the
augury spell. The cauldron is worth 25 gp.
Developments
The stone giants are reluctant to share any information, but if defeated and either threatened or bribed, they might cooperate.
11. Rezmir’s Chamber
The door is always locked and Rezmir holds the key. A knock spell is the easiest way to get in, but a character can also unlock the door with a DC 25 Dexterity check
made using thieves’ tools. Alternatively, knocking and spinning a good yarn might work; cultists and servants come and go at all hours.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 20/39

REZMIR
Unless she is lured elsewhere by a general alarm, Rezmir is here along with two loyal guard drakes. Statistics for these monsters appear in appendix D.
The large rug inside of the door is actually a rug of smothering. The rug patiently waits for a creature to walk
onto it before attacking. If they are present, Rezmir and her drakes wait for the rug to attack an enemy coming
through the door before springing into action.
If Rezmir is killed, the contents of the iron chest on her desk teleport away, leaving the chest empty.
Treasure
Rezmir carries keys to this room, the lock on the chest, and to the storeroom (area 13). In addition, the chest
here is locked and magically attuned to Rezmir so that if she dies, its contents are teleported to the Well of
Dragons and out of her slayers’ hands.
The chest’s padlock can be picked using thieves’ tools with a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. However, the
lock is rigged with a poison needle trap that triggers if the check fails by 5 or more. The needle can be found
with a successful DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check and can be disarmed with a successful DC 15
Dexterity check. A creature triggering the needle trap or failing the Dexterity check by 5 or more is injected
with wyvern poison and must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) poison damage on a
failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
The chest contains the Black Dragon Mask (see appendix C) as well as Rezmir’s private collection of gems,
jewelry, and coins. The gems and jewelry includes a set of matched peridot stones on a gold chain (400 gp), a silver torc with dragon’s heads (200 gp), six moonstones
of 50 gp each, and a set of 20 loose pearls, worth a total of 3,000 gp. There’s also 600 sp, 200 gp, and 50 pp.
A large rug covers the icy ﬂoor just inside the door of this 10-foot-high room, which is lit by a brazier of hot coals. A large bed rests in one corner, a desk in another. Resting atop the
desk is a handsome, iron-banded chest secured with a sturdy padlock.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 21/39

Developments
If the characters capture Rezmir, she refuses to cooperate in any way. She prefers death over surrender, particularly if her death might keep the Black Dragon Mask out
of her enemies’ clutches (see above). Rezmir is a true believer, and the best that the characters can hope for is that their prisoner eventually stops berating and
insulting them. “Your cause is hopeless. My friends will devour you, and your pitiful little attempts to deny the majesty of Tiamat will amount to nothing.”
12. Red Wizards’ Room
The door to this chamber is unlocked.
Rath Modar (see appendix D for statistics), a Red Wizard of Thay allied with the Cult of the Dragon, resides here. Unless he was killed or captured previously, Azbara
Jos (see appendix D) is also present. If both Red Wizards are present, they are in the midst of a scholarly argument when the characters arrive, but they clam up as
soon as others appear. If Rath Modar is alone, he is standing at a lectern, reading a book (see “Treasure”).
If Azbara is absent, Rath Modar might mistake the characters for cultists. If the characters play along and attempt to gather information from the Red Wizard, roleplay
it out. Rath is no fool, and he is an expert at seeing through illusions and deceptions. He also has a healthy suspicion of strangers, especially if the characters are
wounded or inappropriately equipped.
Rath Modar is here to help watch over the vast treasure being transported to the Well of Dragons and also to plan for the summoning of Tiamat; the necessary
incantations are complex and require hundreds of skilled spellcasters. He knows that the cult’s ultimate goal is to free Tiamat and raise her temple from the Nine Hells,
and Rath’s ultimate goal is to use Tiamat and her dragons to overthrow Szass Tam.
The horse skulls on the ceiling are ghastly ornaments and nothing more.
Hundreds of horse skulls are nailed to the ceiling and cover it entirely. Thick carpets cover the icy ﬂoor, and desks, chairs, and lecterns are everywhere, some covered with books and
scrolls, others with potion vials, bits of meat and fur, and other things. Four hulking gargoyles stand frozen in the room.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 22/39

RATH MODAR
Three of the gargoyles are statues; the fourth is a living gargoyle that serves Rath Modar.
Vanishing Wall of Ice
Between two windows is a 35-foot-long, 20-foot-high section of icy wall that vanishes for 1 minute when
touched. Beyond the wall is an outdoor landing platform.
If he is outmatched, Rath Modar turns invisible, casts ﬂy on himself, touches the disappearing wall, and
leaps off the landing platform, leaving Azbara Jos to fend for himself. If the gargoyle is still alive, it tries to
cover Rath’s escape. His ﬂy spell and disappearing trick mean that an escape is very likely.
Developments
Characters who speak to Rath Modar or Azbara Jos ﬁnd that the Red Wizard reputation for arrogance is
true: the pair are haughty and proud of their skill, and they have little patience for “ruﬃans, thugs, and
mercenaries seeking to stop the inevitable.” Rath Modar and his associate ﬁgure prominently in The Rise of
Tiamat. Defeating or killing them is a serious blow to the cult’s ability to summon Tiamat.
Treasure
Rath Modar has three spell scrolls (dimension door, feather fall, and ﬁreball), and he carries a staff of ﬁre.
A thorough search of the room yields several letters to Rath Modar from Severin, the supreme leader of the
Cult of the Dragon. Severin’s letters reveal the depths of the connections between the Red Wizards (at least
those friendly to Rath Modar) and the cult. The characters also ﬁnd other letters from Thay revealing that
clearly some Red Wizards are not nearly as keen on the cult’s plans. If the characters deliver these letters to
Leosin Erlanthar, Ontharr Frume, or one of their other contacts in organizations opposed to the Red Wizards and the Cult of the Dragon, award the party 1,000 XP.
Resting on a lectern is a book titled Beyond the Iron Gates. Written entirely in Infernal, it describes various forms of devil summoning, but the ﬁnal chapter describes
the use of massive summonings and the sacriﬁce of hundreds of souls to bring Tiamat bodily out of the Nine Hells and into the world. The details of the ritual make it
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 23/39

clear that this is something that requires enormous preparation and expense—but the actual magical formulae and chants are not given in this volume. Neither the
book nor the other papers here, however, provide a timetable for when the cult or the Red Wizards plan to attempt the summoning, nor do they mention the signiﬁcance
of the treasure that the cult has amassed. (Rath Modar and Azbara Jos can both attest that the treasure is to appease Tiamat upon her arrival.)
13. Storeroom
The door is secured and locked. Any character with thieves’ tools can attempt a DC 17 Dexterity check to unlock it. Rezmir and Blagothkus carry keys.
This storeroom contains a huge amount of food, though all of it is of average quality. Other than its natural refrigeration, this room is not remarkable.
14. Guest Chamber
This room is comfortably furnished for inhabitants of human size.
A large section of the icy wall opposite the door vanishes for 1 minute when touched, exposing this room to the elements. Beyond the wall is an outdoor landing
platform.
15. Kitchen
Huge sides of beef, entire ham hocks, and enormous barrels ﬁll this room, as do hundreds of crates. The place smells of burlap, wood, and salt.
The scene is pure chaos: dozens of kobolds chopping, mixing, carrying sacks of ingredients, and stirring great cauldrons. It could be an alchemical lab or a kitchen—with kobolds
cooking, it’s a little hard to be sure.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 24/39

Twenty kobolds are here, preparing food for the castle’s other inhabitants. The kitchen is ﬁlled with huge sides of beef, entire sheep, chests full of dried ﬁsh and vast
amounts of bacon, onions, beans, and so forth.
Roosting on a ledge above the fray is a griffon. The creature is Blagothkus’s pet, and it makes sure the kobolds behave themselves. Whenever a ﬁght breaks out, one
shriek from above snaps the kobolds back in line. The griffon also protects the kobolds if they come under attack.
Treasure
A thorough search of the kitchen reveals small chests of black pepper, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Each of these weighs 2 pounds, but their contents are worth 130 gp
total.
16. Upper Courtyard
The upper courtyard is the primary landing site for dragons, wyverns, and ﬂying spellcasters when the castle is airborne. During the day, 2d6 ogres practice their javelin
hurling here. At night, the courtyard is lightly obscured by fog (to a height of 30 feet) and patrolled by the vampire, Sandesyl Morgia (see area 18).
Characters landing here need to be prepared to either show a banner or token of the cult immediately; otherwise, the ogres or vampire on watch will sound the alarm
and attack them. The ogres in area 20 investigate any loud disturbance in the courtyard.
Developments
If the characters arrive in disguise or fast-talk their way through the courtyard, they are taken to meet Blagothkus the cloud giant (if caught by the ogres) or Rezmir (if
caught by the vampire).
17. High Blue Tower
Tall, slender towers and walls of ice enclose a windswept courtyard.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 25/39

The door to this tower is ﬁtted with an iron lock, and Blagothkus carries the only key. The lock can be picked with thieves’ tools and a successful DC 15 Dexterity check.
Two ogres armed with javelins, rocks, and a ballista stand watch atop this tower. They have long coils of rope they use to climb up and down the tower’s exterior.
The tower interior is a hollow cylinder 90 feet high, without stairs or ladders to reach the top. Any creature inside the tower that speaks the command word “Esclarotta”
is instantly teleported to area 21.
Developments
If the two ogres standing watch atop this tower begin ﬁring the ballista or dropping some boulders, they get the attention of the ogre guards, cultists, and others in the
main castle grounds and courtyard fairly quickly. The alarm is raised as soon as any ogre yells.
18. Crumbling Tower
This tower is almost 100 feet high, but it is in shoddy repair. There are two entrances: a door at the base of the tower that cannot be opened (see below), and a working
door connected to a crumbling ice balcony 75 feet above the tower’s base.
The tower is home to the vampire Sandesyl Morgia, a moon elf who joined the Cult of the Dragon long before she became undead. She is a member of the old guard
and was around long before Severin took over. Given the chance, she talks about serving under Sammaster and killing dragons to raise them as dracoliches, which she
still considers “the true path.” She hates the new cult leadership, but she is forced by circumstance to work with them.
This tower of pale blue ice is the color of sky on a winter day. Its few windows shimmer like mirrored glass or crystal.
This ancient tower seems to be crumbling. The windows have been sealed shut with ice, and cracks have formed in the walls and rooftop. A balcony of sculpted ice hugs one side of
the tower, 75 feet above the tower base.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 26/39

SANDESYL MORGIA
Sandesyl is active by night only and prowls both the upper and lower courtyards in the night hours, keeping a
keen eye out for lone ogre guards or others who might provide a meal. When confronted by more enemies
than she can handle, she summons two vampire spawn (moon elf consorts) as reinforcements. These
vampire spawn lurk on the upper ﬂoor of the tower.
The tower is in dire need of repair. The cracked and crumbled ice provides abundant handholds, allowing the
tower’s walls to be climbed with a successful DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check.
The tower once had four levels with 20-foot-high ceilings; however, all but the highest level have had their
ﬂoors and ceilings shattered, and the staircase that once curled up the inside of the tower, connecting its
various levels, has also been destroyed. The ground ﬂoor is now packed with icy debris to a depth of 20 feet,
and this debris prevents the ground-ﬂoor door from being opened.
Balcony
The best way into the tower is via the balcony. However, it has been weakened and breaks away if more than
150 pounds of weight is placed on it. The door leading from the balcony is unlocked and opens into the
upper level that serves as Sandesyl’s crypt. There are no windows on this level.
Sandesyl’s Crypt
Sandesyl’s coﬃn rests in the middle of the tower’s upper level, guarded day and night by her two consorts.
The coﬃn contains grave dirt, but no treasure. A ice staircase hugs one wall, descending a few feet before
ending suddenly, 50 feet above the icy detritus ﬁlling the lowest level of the tower.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 27/39

19. Steering Tower
Blagothkus has secured the door to this tower with an arcane lock. It can be opened normally by a giant or by a knock spell. For everyone else, breaking it down is
largely impossible, because a DC 70 Strength check is required.
This is the castle’s steering chamber. When no one is present, the castle is under the control of the spirit of Esclarotta, who is bound to the fortress by powerful magic
that cannot be dispelled. Touching one of the glowing runes issues a speciﬁc command to Esclarotta’s spirit. A character who understands Dwarvish or Giant can
interpret the command runes.
Command Runes
There are eighteen command runes.
A staircase of ice leads from the tower’s ground ﬂoor to a higher chamber, the walls and ceiling of which gleam and glitter: Jewels are everywhere in the room. You see glowing
moonstones, thumb-sized emeralds, shining silvery mithral wands, and strange spheres covered in turquoise and gold, as well as dozens of copper levers and golden spheres
embedded in the walls. After a moment, the walls themselves seem to disappear, providing a perfect aerial view in all directions, as if there were no castle and no cloudstuff around.
More than a dozen glowing white runes wink into existence, drifting about the room like snowﬂakes.
Alarm. A noise akin to a howling wind alerts all non-deafened creatures in the castle.
All-Clear. A noise akin to a loud whisper signals an end to danger.
Anchor. The castle holds position on the ground or in the air. The castle remains stationary despite winds, storms, and so on.
Calm. The thunderclouds around the castle abate over a period of 1 minute. During this time, the storm rune cannot be reactivated.
Cast Off. The castle is no longer anchored.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 28/39

Esclarotta
Although anyone can trigger command runes, the spirit of the cloud giant Esclarotta actually controls the castle and can “lock out” individuals who misuse the
command runes, effectively rendering them unable to trigger the runes.
Any character succeeding on a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check senses an intelligence at work, and one can attempt to communicate with Esclarotta’s spirit simply
by calling out to it while inside the tower. She is a kind soul, disturbed by the cultists, dragon, wyverns, and kobolds infesting her beautiful castle, and she longs for
information about what her husband is up to. Requests made to her succeed with a DC 14 Charisma (Persuasion). The person has advantage on the check if he or she
Drift. The castle drifts on the wind, effectively under no one’s control.
Home. The castle returns to its place of origin, in the Spine of the World (a cold mountain range to the north).
North, South, East, and West. The castle moves in the speciﬁed cardinal direction. Touching two runes simultaneously can move the castle in other directions; for example, touching the
north and east runes at the same time moves the castle northeast.
Rise. The castle ascends at a rate of 10 feet per round.
Sink. The castle descends at a rate of 10 feet per round. If it comes into contact with the ground, it lands.
Spin. The castle rotates gently clockwise, completing one full rotation in 1 minute.
Storm. The clouds around the castle darken and churn, becoming rumbling thunderclouds over a period of 1 minute. Until then, the calm rune cannot be activated. Once the
thunderclouds have fully formed, the creature that activated the storm rune can use its action while standing in the steering chamber to target one creature or unattended object it can
see with a lightning bolt. The bolt has a range of 1,000 feet. A creature targeted by the bolt must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or take 22 (4d10) lightning damage. An
unattended object targeted by the bolt simply takes the damage (no saving throw).
Unveil. Foggy cloudstuff engulﬁng the castle dissipates. Lightly obscured areas become clear in 1 round, and heavily obscured areas become lightly obscured for 1 minute, then
become clear.
Veil. Foggy cloudstuff materializes around the castle. After one minute, all creatures and objects in outdoor areas within 100 feet of the castle are heavily obscured, and all creatures
and objects in indoor areas are lightly obscured.
Widdershins. The castle rotates gently counterclockwise, completing one full rotation in one minute.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 29/39

speaks Giant. If anyone tries to wreck the steering chamber, Esclarotta triggers the alarm rune. Blagothkus (see appendix D for statistics) arrives 3 rounds later with
two ogres (his stewards) in tow.
If Blagothkus dies aboard the castle, his spirit replaces Esclarotta’s, and he crashes the castle to keep it from falling into enemy hands (see “Developments”).
Treasure
If the characters insist on tearing out the valuable control elements, they can pry loose ﬁstfuls of emeralds, turquoise, moonstones, a huge chunk of jade, bits of amber,
and large pieces of mithral, worth 10,000 gp total. This destroys the castle’s ability to move under power, generate weather effects, and so on. The castle will drift on
powerful winds that carry it northward, where it ultimately crashes on the Miklos Glacier in the Spine of the World Mountains. Repairing the control mechanism
requires a long period of extremely diﬃcult and expensive work, though a wish spell could accomplish it.
Developments
The castle might crash, depending on the actions of the characters and various NPCs.
Crashed by Blagothkus. If the cloud giant is slain, his wife’s spirit in the steering chamber is replaced by his spirit. Enraged, he avenges his death by moving the castle
northward and then commanding it to crash in the Spine of the World, near the Miklos Glacier. More details of this crash and its consequences are provided in The Rise
of Tiamat.
If the dragon is slain and the cultists are routed, Rath Modar gathers any remaining forces allied with the cult and slays Blagothkus, knowing full well that the cloud
giant’s death will cause the castle to crash (see above). Rath Modar then uses his ﬂy spell to escape.
Characters Seize the Castle. If the adventurers befriend Blagothkus and drive off the cultists and the dragon, they may ﬂy it anywhere, though they will certainly attract
hostile attention from any dragon. If they are still aboard the castle, Rath Modar and the vampire do their utmost to thwart them.
If he remains in control of the castle, Blagothkus decides to visit the giants. He sends Skyreach Castle north to near the Spine of the World.
20. Ogre Barracks
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 30/39

Read the following text if the characters surprise this chamber’s occupants:
Unless they are drawn elsewhere by an alarm or some other disturbance, twelve ogres sleep on the furs heaped about this otherwise featureless structure.
Treasure
If the characters spend 30 minutes searching the barracks, they ﬁnd 800 sp and 300 gp. If one member of the party succeeds at a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation)
check, he or she ﬁnds a single pale blue sapphire worth 500 gp wedged into a crevice.
Developments
If any ogres are taken prisoner, charmed, or fast-talked, the characters learn relatively little. They serve the cloud giant Blagothkus (whose wife was slain some years
ago), they know that the cloud giant has several guests, including “the wizard in red robes” (Rath Modar), “the dragon talker” (Rezmir), and “a big white dragon that lives
in the caves” (Glazhael). Getting more than the basic rundown takes a DC 19 Charisma (Persuasion) check for each of the following three additional items:
A vampire watches the Skyreach Castle at night. It sometimes feeds on the ogres, to their chagrin.
The cult uses the castle to visit important sites without roads or portals. The ogres don’t really know where they are other than “the green forests” and “that
stretch of the moors” and “the old mountains.”
The castle’s mists and navigation are all controlled by the cloud giant’s magic. Without him, the castle won’t ﬂy.
The last point is untrue, but it’s what Blagothkus told his ogres, and they believe him.
21. Esclarotta’s Tomb
This icy cyst has no obvious means of entry or egress. However, a creature can teleport to this buried chamber via area 17.
This unfurnished chamber contains a horde of ogres sleeping on piles of fur.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 31/39

The sarcophagus is 20 feet long, 10 feet wide, and 10 feet tall. Dwarvish runes carved into its base spell the name ESCLAROTTA. The lid of the sarcophagus requires a
DC 30 Strength check to push aside, and the bones of Blagothkus’s deceased cloud giant wife are contained within. There is no treasure buried with her.
A creature in this tomb that speaks the name “Blagothkus” is instantly teleported to the ground ﬂoor of area 17.
22. Cloud Giant Tower
This 70-foot-tall tower has a parapet rooftop, two unlocked doors at ground level, and no windows. The tower interior is split into two levels, each with a 30-foot-high
ceiling. A staircase of chiseled ice hugs the interior wall. Unless the characters take strides to conceal their approach, the ogres on the roof spot them.
Tower Rooftop
Three ogres guard the tower rooftop, which is furnished with a ballista. See area 6B for details.
Ground Floor
A chime attached to the inside of each door rings when the door is opened, alerting the tower’s inhabitants.
A staircase hugs the interior wall of this chamber, leading up to a landing with a door. The room itself contains sturdy wood-carved furnishings of giant proportions,
including a table surrounded by four chairs. The walls are sculpted with ice murals depicting an army of hill, frost, ﬁre, stone, and cloud giants.
Four ogres guard the lower level. They wear fancy plumed helmets to signify that they are members of Blagothkus’s “honor guard.” This simple reward keeps the ogres
alert and loyal, for they know the giant could give their helms away to someone else at any time.
Upper Floor
If the ogres above or below him sound the alarm, Blagothkus cannot be surprised.
You appear in an oval cave carved from solid glacial ice, with no passages leading out. The ceiling is 30 feet high and lined with icicles, and bits of broken ice surround a massive
white marble sarcophagus situated in the middle of the ﬂoor. The lid of the sarcophagus is sculpted into the likeness of a female giant with long ﬂowing hair.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 32/39

Blagothkus (see appendix D for statistics) and the two ogres (his stewards) aren’t the only inhabitants of this room. As a bonus action on his turn, Blagothkus can
summon an air elemental that’s been magically bound to the room. The elemental follows the giant’s commands but cannot leave the room. It remains until dismissed
by its master.
The dim-witted ogre stewards are poor conversationalists, but Blagothkus uses them as sounding boards, expressing his concerns that the Cult of the Dragon might
try to seize control of the castle. The ogres offer no advice. Clever characters can sow discord by preying on the giant’s fears (see “Negotiating with the Cloud Giant”
near the beginning of the chapter). An alarm or the characters’ sudden appearance startles him, and he reaches for his weapon. If the characters are pretending to be
cultists, Blagothkus is furious at their intrusion but does not attack unless they further provoke him. The ogres defend their master to the death.
The walls of this room are sculpted with icy murals depicting cloud giants riding giant birds. An enormous bed with a headboard of ice sculpted to resemble clouds dominates the
room. Bear furs are heaped upon the bed, and two large wooden chests rest at the bed’s foot.
A blue-skinned giant sits on the ﬂoor with his legs crossed while two ogres comb his snowy white hair. The giant’s hulking morningstar leans against the bed within arm’s reach.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 33/39

24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 34/39

BLAGOTHKUS
Treasure
The chests are unlocked and loaded with silver and gold coins (12,000 gp total). One of the chests also contains a bag of holding, four bars of solid gold (worth 1,000
gp each), and forty bars of solid silver (worth 100 gp each). Each bar weighs approximately 5 pounds.
Developments
If the characters surrender to Blagothkus, he asks about their names, allegiances, and plans. If the characters represent themselves as enemies of the cult, the giant
says, “I can take care of them. But just in case, you should know that they are entirely serious about making dragons a power along the coast again. Can you imagine?
The nerve.” If they sway the giant to their side, he locks himself in area 19 and guides the castle northward while the characters deal with the cultists and the white
dragon. Blagothkus’s ultimate destination is described in The Rise of Tiamat.
If anyone attempts to wrest the castle from him, Blagothkus goes to the steering tower and tries to crash the castle in the Spine of the World; see area 19 for details. If
Blagothkus is killed, his spirit takes over the castle, with the same end result.
23. Giant Guest Chambers
These rooms are set aside for giant-sized guests and have furnishings of the appropriate size.
In each room, a large section of the outer wall vanishes for 1 minute when touched, revealing a icy landing platform. Long ago, giants would use these platforms to
land their roc mounts.
24. Servant Barracks
Twenty kobolds are trying to sleep here on dozens of small piles of bedding, fur, and clothes. They are exhausted and ignore the characters unless they are in great
danger. They have no treasure.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 35/39

Characters questioning the kobold servants may make a DC 12 Charisma (Persuasion) check. If the characters are dressed as cultists and are fairly convincing, no
check is required. Each success brings one of the following bits of information to light; the ﬁrst failure by any character means that the kobolds unite in their terror of
the cultists and go completely silent. If questioned further, they start screaming for help and babbling for mercy: completely useless.
An elf vampire lives in the crumbling tower (area 18).
Blagothkus still speaks to his dead wife, and her spirit is the castle’s pilot and protector. If the giant dies, all the magic of the castle will be undone.
The human dragon-cult people don’t really understand dragons the way that kobolds do. Dragons are ﬁne creatures, but grumpy. They say the treasure here is
for the queen of all dragons, to keep her from being grumpy.
A red-robed wizard is working with the cultists, and his room (area 12) is off limits to all kobolds.
The white dragon Cloudchaser loves frozen meat. Toss it into the cavern (area 25) and run!
25. Main Vault
The icy “core” of the castle is hollowed out with tunnels that break the surface at multiple points. The white dragon, Glazhael the Cloudchaser, enters and leaves via a
wide funnel-shaped passageway that narrows as it draws closer to the main vault, where the Cult of the Dragon stores its treasure.
If the characters explore the tunnels, read or paraphrase the following:
When the characters reach the main vault, read:
The walls of blue ice are partly transparent, revealing various things embedded in the ice all around, including coins, helmets, livestock, a handful of kobolds, and an ogre or two. Frost
coats the tunnel ﬂoors and crunches underfoot.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 36/39

Glazhael is an adult white dragon that is doing his part to ensure the rise of Tiamat, hopeful that the queen of evil dragons will reward him with untold power. He is,
however, a bit on the dim side, thinking of visitors as either servants (who bring him food) or as enemies (who do not bring him food). Mostly, Glazhael is proud to
guard this treasure for Tiamat, his most glorious and perfect queen. He rarely talks to any cultists other than Talis and is suspicious of Rezmir and the others.
If the characters speak with Glazhael, he responds with a pompous speech about the superiority of dragons over humans, dwarves, and so forth.
If the characters ﬂatter him to a ludicrous degree, he listens to anything that sounds like fawning, servile, helpful obedience but offers nothing in return. He will
generously spare the lives of those who offer him tribute in the form of treasure or food. Those who challenge him become targets of his breath weapon.
When ﬁghting, Glazhael clings to the ceiling whenever possible, using his breath weapon and Frightful Presence to start. If that doesn’t scare the characters off, he
makes melee attacks until his breath weapon recharges. If dropped to fewer than 40 hit points, he ﬂees. He can navigate even the narrow tunnels by tucking in his
wings. Once outside, he alerts the rest of the castle, shouting “They’re after the treasure!” in Draconic.
Clever characters can lure the dragon into a narrow tunnel where it is unable to maneuver effectively. Under such circumstances, the dragon has disadvantage on its
melee attacks.
Treasure
When the characters investigate the hoard, read:
All tunnels seem to lead to a central core—a glittering cavern of ice with jagged walls and icicles the size of stalactites. This grand vault is split into two levels: an egg-shaped upper
level with a sheer ledge overlooking a sunken level 30 feet below, where a massive pile of treasure rests beneath an icy glaze. Clinging to the ceiling above the hoard, wings tucked in
tight along its sides with claws gripping the ice, is a huge white dragon.
The ﬂoor of the cavern is carpeted in gold, silver, copper, and jewels, all sealed under a sheet of ice. Dozens of old human skulls and bones are also frozen in the ice.
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 37/39

The treasure hoard is frozen in ice, and it requires either several ﬁre spells or a long wait with bonﬁres to melt the ice. The hoard includes 500,000 cp, 100,000 sp, and
5,000 gp, a frozen chest containing 800 pp and 21 small blue sapphires worth 300 gp each, a frozen potion of gaseous form, a +1 longsword, a +1 longbow, +1 leather
armor, and bracers of defense.
Developments
If the dragon is slain, the cultists are enraged and seek immediate vengeance. The major cult players on Skyreach Castle will call out the ogres, wake the vampire, and
ask the Red Wizards to ﬁnd the intruders. If the characters are still around after the dragon is slain, the entire castle is on high alert until they are found and killed.
Concluding the Adventure
The crash or capture of Skyreach Castle marks the end of Hoard of the Dragon Queen. If you are using the milestone experience rule, the characters reach 8th level for
completing the adventure. By uncovering the cult’s plans and hijacking a huge hoard of treasure, the characters have slowed and damaged the cult’s chances of
success. They might also have slain or captured important leaders of the Cult of the Dragon. But there is much more to come. The cult moves forward with its plan to
free their ﬁve-headed queen out of the Nine Hells, and the mere loss of wealth will not stop the true fanatics.
The Rise of Tiamat expands on the ﬁnal drive to destroy the Cult of the Dragon, and it requires great new powers and new courage. Things grow much more dangerous
for the adventurers as they seek help in strange places, from the Sea of Moving Ice to the depths of the Serpent Hills. They might ﬁnd a great weapon among the giants
or uncover an unexpected ally within the cult itself.
Unless the characters press on, the Queen of Dragons might yet establish her personal rule over the lands of lesser creatures. The stakes are high when the gates to
the Nine Hells open, and scaly doom comes out of its lair, full of ﬁre and fangs.
The conﬂict reaches its apex at the Well of Dragons, where the characters and their hard-won allies face Tiamat and her greatest minions in a ﬁght to the death!
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 38/39

Our Terms of Service and Privacy Notice have recently been updated to provide greater clarity as to how disputes are handled and transparency regarding the
collection and use of personal data. Please review them here: Terms of Service, Privacy Notice. By continuing to use the services, you agree to the new Terms.
SUPPORT
Help Portal
Support Forum
System Status
Do Not Sell or Share My
Personal Information
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Notice
System Reference Document
(SRD)
ABOUT
Contact Us
Careers
Wizards of the Coast
FIND US ON SOCIAL MEDIA
 DOWNLOAD THE D&D BEYOND APP
© 2017-2026 WIZARDS OF THE COAST LLC | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Dungeons & Dragons, D&D Beyond, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, the dragon ampersand, and all other Wizards of the Coast product names, campaign settings,
their respective logos, and The World's Greatest Roleplaying Game are © and trademark Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. © 2026
Wizards.
PRIVACY POLICY TERMS OF SERVICE
24/03/2026, 08:41 Castle in the Clouds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/castle-in-the-clouds 39/39