Intro to Stormwreck Isle
Dragons of Stormwreck Isle is your gateway to action-packed adventures in the cooperative storytelling game Dungeons & Dragons! Get a taste of the
adventure right now with “Voyage to Stormwreck Isle” and “Drowned Sailors”.
In addition, you’ll ﬁnd ﬁve ready-to-play characters and a curated list of spells and their descriptions for the magic users in the party.
Don’t worry if you haven’t played D&D before. This is a great place to start! To learn to run it, watch the “Encounter Walk-Through: Drowned Sailors”
video on playdnd.com—the video explains everything you need to know. You can ﬁnd plenty of other tools for both players and Dungeon Masters at
playdnd.com as well.
Overview
A D&D adventure is a collection of locations, quests, and challenges that inspire you to tell a story. The outcome of that story is determined by the
actions and decisions of the player characters—and the luck of the dice.
Dragons of Stormwreck Isle draws the characters into the midst of an ancient war among dragons as they explore an island that has long been a
battleﬁeld in that conﬂict.
Adventure Background
The origin of Dragon’s Rest is rooted in the ancient conﬂict between the good metallic dragons—gold, silver, bronze, brass, and copper—and the evil
chromatic dragons—red, blue, green, black, and white. Ages ago, metallic dragons imprisoned a rampaging red dragon beneath the ocean ﬂoor. But
the red dragon’s fury caused the undersea volcanic activity that formed Stormwreck Isle, the island on which Dragon’s Rest stands.
ARTIST: KARL KOPINSKI
ARTIST: MIKE SCHLEY
2/8/26, 12:24 AM Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/itsi/intro-to-stormwreck-isle 1/11

The imprisoned dragon’s powerful magic has left a permanent mark on Stormwreck Isle. That magic draws other dragons to the island, making it a
recurring battleﬁeld. The spiritual scars of dragons who have died there give rise to monsters and unpredictable magic—and this is where the
adventure begins!
Premade Characters
Below are ﬁve premade characters that you can use on D&D Beyond or download via PDF.
Dwarf Cleric
You trained as a soldier on the island of Mintarn and joined a mercenary company. You traveled to the city of Neverwinter with your company to serve
in both the army and city watch. Over time, you grew disillusioned with many of your fellow soldiers. They seemed to enjoy their authority at the
expense of the people they’re supposed to protect.
Recently you’ve had dreams of a shadow creeping across the sea like a shroud, swallowing an island in darkness. Though you dismissed the dreams
at ﬁrst, you began to hear a voice calling you to stand against death’s endless hunger. Certain of your deity’s wishes, you resigned your post and set
out on your quest.
MAP: STORMWRECK ISLE
VIEW UNLABELED VERSION
ARTIST: SHAWN WOOD
2/8/26, 12:24 AM Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/itsi/intro-to-stormwreck-isle 2/11

Personal Goal: Banish a Shadow of Death. Researching images from your dreams pointed you to Stormwreck Isle, not far from Neverwinter. A remote
cloister there holds a temple to the dragon god Bahamut, who is a patron of heroes and a champion of justice. Someone at the cloister may hold the
key to the impending doom your deity wishes you to avert.
VIEW CHARACTER SHEET
Downloadable PDF
Elf Fighter
Your parents lived in the prosperous village of Thundertree, east of the city of Neverwinter and at the edge of the Neverwinter Wood. But when nearby
Mount Hotenow erupted thirty years ago, your parents ﬂed, perhaps carrying you in your infancy (depending on how old you are). Your family drifted
from village to village around the region, ﬁnding work as laborers where they could.
You’ve spent the last few years in Neverwinter as a carpenter working at the city’s bustling docks. But it’s clear to you and everyone around you that
you are destined for much more. You stood up to an abusive ship captain once, so other dockworkers look up to you. Someday, you’ll come into your
own. You’ll be a hero.
Personal Goal: Determine Your Destiny. In the remote cloister of Dragon’s Rest lives an old sage who is supposed to possess great wisdom—or
possibly supernatural insight. The cloister holds a temple to the dragon god Bahamut, who is a patron of heroes and a champion of justice. Maybe
Elder Runara can help you determine exactly what your heroic destiny is and set you on the right path to fulﬁll it, so you can become the hero you
know you’re meant to be.
VIEW CHARACTER SHEET
Downloadable PDF
Elf Wizard
ARTIST: SHAWN WOOD
ARTIST: RICHARD WHITTERS
2/8/26, 12:24 AM Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/itsi/intro-to-stormwreck-isle 3/11

Your parents identiﬁed your magical talent early in your long elven life and arranged for you to be apprenticed to a kindly wizard in the city of
Neverwinter. You excelled at your studies and forged friendships and rivalries with other apprentices. You always had a particular knack for wielding
ﬂashy, energetic forces, and you focused your study on the school of evocation.
After graduating from your apprenticeship, you and your peers went your separate ways to focus on your own studies. Recently, you received a letter
from one of your colleagues, pointing you toward a source of lost knowledge. Shortly after the letter arrived, you learned tragic news: your friend died
under mysterious circumstances.
Personal Goal: Discover Lost Knowledge. The letter spoke of an arcane observatory built on a nearby island by wizards long gone, and it hinted at
powerful magic hidden there. A small cloister known as Dragon’s Rest also resides on the island. The caretaker of the cloister’s temple to the dragon
god Bahamut, who is a patron of heroes and a champion of justice, must have information regarding the observatory. This Elder Runara can set you
on the path to discovering the knowledge your friend never found.
VIEW CHARACTER SHEET
Downloadable PDF
Halﬂing Rogue
You fell in with a thieves’ guild called the Gilded Gallows at an early age. The guild has prospered in recent years, and its inﬂuence is spreading across
the Sword Coast. You followed that expansion, hoping to ﬁnd your fortune in the city of Neverwinter.
ARTIST: SHAWN WOOD
2/8/26, 12:24 AM Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/itsi/intro-to-stormwreck-isle 4/11

Fortunes in Neverwinter have been fair but not the fast riches you hoped for. You heard a story from a smuggler about a high-ranking member of the
Gilded Gallows who turned traitor, killed their partner, and ﬂed with a sovereign’s ransom in treasure. Thanks to details you’ve picked up here and there
that corroborate the story, you’re certain it’s more than just a rumor.
Personal Goal: Find the Lost Fortune. Whoever that Gilder was who skipped out with the gold, they’ve covered their tracks well. The trail went cold in
Neverwinter, but recently you’ve learned of a remote island cloister called Dragon’s Rest. The cloister holds a temple to the dragon god Bahamut, who
is a patron of heroes and a champion of justice. There is also a community of hermits who live there now, the perfect place to hide for someone
wishing to escape their past. If that treasure’s there, you’ll ﬁnd it.
VIEW CHARACTER SHEET
Downloadable PDF
Human Paladin
Your family is no stranger to wealth, power, and privilege. In the glory days of Neverwinter, your parents ruled the county of Corlinn Hill, located in the
hills northeast of the city. But Mount Hotenow erupted thirty years ago, devastating Neverwinter and erasing Corlinn Hill. Instead of growing up on an
estate, you were raised in a small townhouse in Waterdeep. As an adult, you stand to inherit only a title.
ARTIST: SHAWN WOOD
2/8/26, 12:24 AM Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/itsi/intro-to-stormwreck-isle 5/11

Since swearing your oath to Bahamut, you’ve returned to Neverwinter and have been a champion to those who are overlooked by the institutions that
exist to protect them. Recently, your resolve has been shaken by corruption in the city guard and ruling aristocrats.
Personal Goal: Rejuvenating Pilgrimage. Seeking to reinvigorate your resolve, you learned of a remote cloister, Dragon’s Rest, on a tiny island. The
cloister holds a temple to the dragon god Bahamut. You feel drawn to contemplate your place in the world there.
VIEW CHARACTER SHEET
Downloadable PDF
Voyage to Stormwreck Isle
Before play starts, introduce yourself and welcome the players:
Read this text to set the scene:
Show the players the illustration of their ship at sea.
Show the players the illustration of the merrow and adopt a different voice for it. You can use any voice you like, but try to sound intimidating! Read
this text in the merrow’s voice:
ARTIST: LINDA LITHÉN
Hi everyone. I’m going to be running you through a quick demo on how to play D&D. I’m the Dungeon Master, so it’s my job to tell you what’s happening in the world
around you and rolling any dice for the monster. You’re playing the heroes!
Your journey has been smooth sailing so far. You left the bustling port of Neverwinter a few days ago, heading for an island with the foreboding name ofStormwreck Isle. But you woke this morning to a blood-red sunrise, and dark clouds overhead threaten a violent storm.
As lightning ﬂashes across the sky, a monster hauls itself up onto the deck!
“These waters belong to the Scaled Queen. I’m here to collect her tribute.”
2/8/26, 12:24 AM Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/itsi/intro-to-stormwreck-isle 6/11

Explaining the Game
Read or paraphrase this boxed text:
Run the Encounter
Let the players take the lead! They can try anything they can imagine.
Encourage the players to tell you their ideas. Ask them to let you know what they are thinking, and then run with it!
Whatever the characters try and whatever their die rolls indicate, use vivid descriptions to keep things exciting.
Here are some of the most likely approaches.
Negotiate with the Merrow
The players might agree to pay tribute to the Scaled Queen. The merrow initially demands a payment of 400 gold pieces (gp) or its equivalent in
goods. This is the value of all the goods in the hold. The characters can use Charisma checks (applying Persuasion, Intimidation, or perhaps
Deception skills, as appropriate) to get it to accept a lower amount; each successful DC 15 check reduces the amount he asks for by 100 gp.
If the players ask about the Scaled Queen, the merrow says that she
is a huge, two-headed merrow who carries the special blessing of
the Prince of Demons, Demogorgon.
Attack the Merrow
Lots of players will attack ﬁrst. Other players will decide their
characters attack if other approaches fail. When a player decides
that their character attacks, their character acts ﬁrst in combat.
Then play passes to the right. Take the merrow’s turn when it
passes around to you.
On each player’s turn, talk through the different actions their
character can take, such as attacking with weapons and casting
spells. Explain the character’s different weapons and spell attacks.
This merrow looks fearsome but doesn't present too much of a
threat to the characters. They should be able to defeat it in 1–2
rounds.
I’ve just told you the situation you’re in. What happens next is up to you. You’re all trained for combat, so if you want to ﬁght this monster, which is called a merrow,I can help you do that. But you can also try to negotiate with the merrow, or trick it, or anything else you can imagine.
Just about anything you can think of to try will require some combination of skill, natural ability, and luck to pull off. And the D&D game represents that by having
you roll one of these 20-sided dice and add a number from your sheet. So… what do you want to do?
MERROW EXTORTIONISTLarge Monstrosity, Typically Chaotic Evil
Armor Class 13 (natural armor)
Hit Points 30 (4d10 + 8)
Speed 10 ft., swim 40 ft.
STR
16 (+3)
DEX
10 (+0)
CON
15 (+2)
INT
8 (−1)
WIS
10 (+0)
CHA
9 (−1)
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Abyssal, Aquan, Common
Challenge 1 (100 XP) Proﬁciency Bonus +2
Amphibious. The merrow can breathe air and water.
Actions
Multiattack. The merrow makes two Rend attacks.
Rend. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3)piercing damage.
ARTIST: LINDA LITHÉN
2/8/26, 12:24 AM Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/itsi/intro-to-stormwreck-isle 7/11

Shenanigans
The players might think of creative ideas for dealing with the merrow:
Can I roll a barrel to push the merrow overboard?
Can I drop a sail on it so it can't see?
Can I persuade the crew to rush it?
Can I...
Whatever the players ask, the answer should (almost) always be something like, “You can try!” If a character has a speciﬁc spell or ability that will let
them accomplish what they want to do, help the player use that spell or ability. Otherwise, ask the player to make a ability check that's appropriate to
their character's tactics, such as a Strength (Athletics) check for trying to roll the barrel at the merrow, a Dexterity check to ﬂing a sail over it, or a
Charisma (Intimidation) check to convince it that the crew is about to attack.
Wrap Up
When the characters have dealt with the merrow, one way or another, read this text to wrap up:
Welcome to Dragon’s Rest
With a splash, the merrow disappears into the ocean deeps and the ship continues on its way. The sailors raise a cheer, and the storm brewing overhead seemsnot quite so threatening now.
And that brings us to the end of your ﬁrst taste of adventure.
ARTIST: JENN RAVENNA
2/8/26, 12:24 AM Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/itsi/intro-to-stormwreck-isle 8/11

The adventure continues at a tiny cloister on Stormwreck Isle called Dragon’s Rest, a haven where world-weary people come to seek peace,
reconciliation, and enlightenment. There, the characters learn about the dangers facing Stormwreck Isle.
Each character has a speciﬁc reason for coming to the cloister, as shown on the character sheets. You can also let players invent their own reasons
for their characters to seek out the wisdom and assistance of Elder Runara, who runs the cloister.
Read the following text when you’re ready to start:
Before continuing with the adventure, encourage the players to introduce their characters to each other if they haven’t done so already. They might
want to discuss their reasons for visiting Dragon’s Rest, or they might prefer to keep their reasons secret for now.
Ask the players to give you the party’s marching order as they start toward the cloister. Who’s in front, and who’s bringing up the rear? Make a note of
this marching order.
When you’re ready, continue with the “Drowned Sailors” section.
Drowned Sailors
Read the following text to start the encounter:
The three shambling sailors are zombies, the animated corpses of sailors who died in a recent shipwreck. The characters face a choice: they can turn
and ﬁght the zombies, or they can continue up the path and leave the slow, shambling zombies behind.
Stormwreck Isle—now visible off the bow—promises rare wonders. Seaweed shimmers in countless brilliant colors below you, and rays of sunlight defy theovercast sky to illuminate the lush grass and dark basalt rock of the island. Avoiding the rocks jutting up from the ocean, your ship makes its way toward a calm
harbor on the island’s north side.
A large, open-air temple comes into view, perched on the edge of a cliff high above you. The ship drops anchor at the mouth of the harbor, and two sailors row you
ashore. You have plenty of time to admire the towering statue at the center of the temple, depicting a wizened man surrounded by seven songbirds. A long pathwinds up the side of the cliff to the temple, dotted along the way with doorways cut into the rock.
The sailors set you ashore on a rickety dock, where a large rowboat is neatly tied. They point to the base of the path and wish you good luck before they row back
to the ship. Your visit to Dragon’s Rest begins!
As you’re about to leave the beach and start your climb, you hear a ruckus of splashing and a wet, gurgling moan behind you. Three ﬁgures are shambling up from
the water’s edge, about thirty feet away. They’re dressed as sailors, but their skin is gray and they look drowned. Sea water drools from their slack mouths as theylurch toward you.
2/8/26, 12:24 AM Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/itsi/intro-to-stormwreck-isle 9/11

If the characters turn and ﬁght, this is the ﬁrst combat encounter in the adventure. Here are the steps you should follow to run it:
1. Review the zombie stat block below.
2. Use the initiative rules to determine who acts ﬁrst, second, third, and so on. Keep track of everyone’s initiative count on your notepad.
3. On the zombies’ initiative count, they move toward the characters. If they get close enough, they make melee attacks. The zombies’ stat block
contains the information you need to resolve these attacks.
4. On each character’s initiative count, the character can choose from the actions on their character sheet.
5. The zombies ﬁght until they’re all defeated.
Tip: Undead Fortitude. The zombies’ Undead Fortitude trait reﬂects how hard it is to kill these walking corpses. When this trait prevents a zombie
from dying, give the players a hint about what happened. You might say, “That should have ﬁnished the creature off, but it refuses to stop moving!” On
the ﬂip side, any time a zombie takes radiant damage (such as from the cleric’s sacred ﬂame cantrip), you might describe the creature howling in
agony. This can help the players realize that radiant damage is a way to get around Undead Fortitude. If the players ask whether their characters know
anything about ﬁghting zombies, have them make DC 10 Intelligence checks. Those who succeed might recall that a particularly powerful blow (a
critical hit) or radiant damage can help ﬁnish off a zombie.
Runara’s Aid. In the unlikely event that the zombies defeat the adventurers, Elder Runara comes to their rescue. The characters wake up in a temple in
Dragon’s Rest. Runara explains that she heard the sounds of combat and arrived just in time to prevent the zombies from dragging the characters into
the sea.
Avoiding the Zombies. If the characters are faring poorly against the zombies or decide not to ﬁght them, the characters can easily escape from the
slow, shambling monsters. The zombies don’t follow them up the path toward Dragon’s Rest.
There’s More To Explore!
Continue the story with the D&D Starter Set: Dragons of Stormwreck Isle, which is available now! The boxed set contains the essential rules of the
game plus everything you need to play heroic characters caught up in an ancient war among dragons as they explore the secrets of Stormwreck Isle.
Get ready for hours of epic adventure!
Find additional tips, tools, and video walk-throughs to help you get started at playdnd.com.
Credits
ZOMBIEMedium Undead, Typically Neutral Evil
Armor Class 8
Hit Points 22 (3d8 + 9)
Speed 20 ft.
STR
13 (+1)
DEX
6 (−2)
CON
16 (+3)
INT
3 (−4)
WIS
6 (−2)
CHA
5 (−3)
Saving Throws Wis +0
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 8
Languages understands the languages it knew in life but can’t speak
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP) Proﬁciency Bonus +2
Undead Fortitude. If damage reduces the zombie to 0 hit points, it makes aConstitution saving throw with a DC of 5 + the damage taken, unless the damageis radiant or from a critical hit. On a success, the zombie drops to 1 hit pointinstead.
Unusual Nature. The zombie doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep.
Actions
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1)bludgeoning damage.
ARTIST: CONCEPTOPOLIS
2/8/26, 12:24 AM Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/itsi/intro-to-stormwreck-isle 10/11

Our Terms of Service and Privacy Notice have recently been updated to provide greater clarity as to how disputes are handled and transparencyregarding the collection and use of personal data. Please review them here: Terms of Service, Privacy Notice. By continuing to use the services,you agree to the new Terms.
SUPPORT
Help Portal
Support Forum
System Status
Do Not Sell or ShareMy PersonalInformation
Your PrivacyChoices
Cookie Notice
System ReferenceDocument (SRD)
ABOUT
Contact Us
Careers
Wizards of theCoast
FIND US ON SOCIALMEDIA
 DOWNLOAD THE D&D BEYONDAPP
© 2017-2026 WIZARDS OF THE COAST LLC | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Dungeons & Dragons, D&D Beyond, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, the dragon ampersand, and all other Wizards of the Coast
product names, campaign settings, their respective logos, and The World's Greatest Roleplaying Game are © and
trademark Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. © 2026 Wizards.
PRIVACY POLICYTERMS OF SERVICE
Lead Designer: James Wyatt
Designers: Sydney Adams, Makenzie De Armas, Dan Dillon
Rules Developers: Jeremy Crawford, Ben Petrisor
Art Director: Kate Irwin
Graphic Designers: Matt Cole, Bob Jordan, Trish Yochum
Cover Illustrator: Karl Kopinski
Cartographer: Mike Schley
Interior Illustrators: Conceptopolis, Linda Lithén, Jenn Ravenna
Character Sheet Illustrators: Richard Whitters, Shawn Wood
Editors: Judy Bauer, Michele Carter
Product Manager: Natalie Egan
Producer: Rob Hawkey
2/8/26, 12:24 AM Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Intro to Stormwreck Isle - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/itsi/intro-to-stormwreck-isle 11/11