CHAPTER 17: TIAMAT’S RETURN TABLE OF CONTENTS APPENDIX B: COUNCIL SCORECARD
Appendix A: Backgrounds
This appendix provides players with an easy way to create characters with compelling ties to the events of Tyranny of Dragons.
Background Template
Below is a background template that applies to any background that you select or create. You can replace or augment some or all of the options in your chosen
background with one or more of the elements given below. Each section tells you whether it replaces or adds to your background.
The Story Thus Far ...
As the Cult of the Dragon has grown bolder, its actions have drawn attention. Your character has stumbled into the cult’s scheme in some manner or has a connection
to dragons. The Campaign Bonds table provides bonds tailored to Tyranny of Dragons. Use them in place of or in addition to the ones you selected from (or created
for) your background.
Campaign Bonds
d10 Bond
1 Leosin Erlanthar, a wandering monk, once saved your life. He’s sent urgent word for you to meet him in a small town called Greenest. Looks like it’s time to pay
off that debt.
24/03/2026, 08:45 Backgrounds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/backgrounds 1/4

d10 Bond
2 When an orc raid drove your family from your home, the people of Greenest took you in. Anyone who threatens Greenest is your sworn enemy.
3
Every ﬁve nights, you have a strange sequence of apocalyptic dreams. The world is destroyed by cold, choking fumes, lightning storms, waves of acid, and
horrible ﬁre. Each time, the dream ends with ten evil eyes glaring at you from the darkness. You feel a strange compulsion to travel to Greenest. Perhaps the
answer to the riddle of your dreams awaits you there.
4 Ontharr Frume, a crusading warrior and champion of good, is your friend and mentor. He has asked you to travel to Greenest in search of rumors of increasing
dragon activity.
5 You have heard rumors that your close childhood friend, a half-elf named Talis, has been kidnapped by a strange group of dragon cultists. Your investigations
into the cult have led you to the town of Greenest. You must save her!
6
Being the grandchild of a renowned dragon slayer is usually a good way to impress people, but just last week a gang of ruﬃans attack you. You barely escaped
with your life, but as you ﬂed, the ruﬃans told you that the Cult of the Dragon never forgets and always avenges. You’re hoping to lie low in a sleepy little town
called Greenest until this blows over.
7
On his deathbed, your father confessed that he had become involved with a group called the Cult of the Dragon. They paid him to smuggle goods across the
Sword Coast. Wracked by guilt, he begged you to investigate the cult and undo the evil he may have helped foster. He urged you to begin your search in a town
called Greenest.
8 The dragons destroyed everything you hold dear. They killed your family and destroyed your home. Now, with nothing but what you carry on your back and a
horrid scar of the near fatal wounds you sustained in the attack, you seek revenge.
9
You and your family were members of the Cult of the Dragon, until your rivals in the cult arranged to wipe you out. Though they slaughtered your kin, you survived,
but they think you’re dead. Now is your chance for vengeance! Your hit list consists of three names: a human cultist named Frulam Mondath, a half-orc named
Bog Luck, and a half-dragon named Rezmir. You have arrived in Greenest, knowing it’s next on the cult’s list of targets.
10
You have a secret. You once were a gold dragon who served Bahamut. You were too proud and vain, to the point that Bahamut decided to teach you a lesson.
You have been trapped in a weak, humanoid body, with your memories of your former life but a dim shadow. You remember only one thing with perfect clarity:
Bahamut’s command to go into the world and prove your devotion to the cause of good. If you prove worthy, on your death you will return to his side in your true
form.
24/03/2026, 08:45 Backgrounds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/backgrounds 2/4

Our Terms of Service and Privacy Notice have recently been updated to provide greater clarity as to how disputes are handled and transparency regarding the
collection and use of personal data. Please review them here: Terms of Service, Privacy Notice. By continuing to use the services, you agree to the new Terms.
SUPPORT
Help Portal
Support Forum
System Status
Do Not Sell or Share My
Personal Information
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Notice
ABOUT
Contact Us
Careers
Wizards of the Coast
FIND US ON SOCIAL MEDIA
 DOWNLOAD THE D&D BEYOND APP
Optional Features
Below are two optional features that you can choose in place of the feature granted by your background.
Feature: Cult of the Dragon Inﬁltrator
You have inﬁltrated the ranks of the Cult of the Dragon. Having spied on the organization for quite some time, you are familiar with its inner workings and customs. You
have a second identity as an initiate of the cult, enough of a facade to blend in as a simple grunt or servant.
Feature: Dragon Scholar
You have studied dragons and their lore for many years. You can automatically identify locations built or used by dragons and can identify dragon eggs and scales by
sight. If you fail an Intelligence check to recall lore relating to dragons, you know someone or some book you can consult for the answer unless the DM rules that the
lore is unknown.
24/03/2026, 08:45 Backgrounds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/backgrounds 3/4

System Reference Document
(SRD)
© 2017-2026 WIZARDS OF THE COAST LLC | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Dungeons & Dragons, D&D Beyond, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, the dragon ampersand, and all other Wizards of the Coast product names, campaign settings,
their respective logos, and The World's Greatest Roleplaying Game are © and trademark Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. © 2026
Wizards.
PRIVACY POLICY TERMS OF SERVICE
24/03/2026, 08:45 Backgrounds - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/backgrounds 4/4