CAMPAIGN OVERVIEW TABLE OF CONTENTS CHAPTER 2: RAIDERS’ CAMP
Chapter 1: Greenest in Flames
DISMISSHeliana's Guide to Monster Hunting: Part 2: Thrilling hunts, epic crafting, monstrous rewards await!
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 1/20

The town of Greenest was founded by the halﬂing Dharva Scatterheart, a rogue who fancied herself the queen of the Greenﬁelds. Scatterheart passed away without
ever achieving that level of eminence, but her town grew into a thriving community. Its success isn’t surprising, since Greenest is the only town of any size astride the
Uldoon Trail, the most direct road between the eastern cities of the Dragon Coast, Cormyr, and Sembia with the Coast Way running south to the great cities of Amn,
Tethyr, and far Calimshan. The trade caravans that pass through Greenest bring gold to the town’s merchants and craftsfolk, and Governor Nighthill runs the town at
the behest of the inhabitants.
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 2/20

The adventurers might be on the road from one town to another or returning to their homes after a trip away. Alternatively, they could be accompanying a merchant or
wealthy traveler as bodyguards. Many restless young people of Faerûn have had their ﬁrst taste of travel and adventure as caravan guards.
You can adapt Tyranny of Dragons to different regions of the Realms or to a different setting with a bit more preparation on your part. Change the names and locations
to suit your campaign.
Character Hooks
To tie the characters’ backstories to the Tyranny of Dragons campaign more closely, see appendix A.
The Approach
As characters approach Greenest, they see that a blue dragon and its Cult of the Dragon allies are attacking the town. The cultists seek to collect treasure that they
hope to present to Tiamat upon her arrival in the world. The cult has assembled a powerful force for this raid by gathering bandits, kobolds, sellswords, and other
mercenary types into a small army. A monk named Leosin Erlanthar was also in town. Through diligent research and interviews conducted during his travels between
Berdusk and Candlekeep, Leosin became convinced that the cult is engaged in a big operation, but he doesn’t yet know what it is. Leosin uses the raid as an
opportunity to inﬁltrate the cult so that he can learn more about the cult’s plans. He is discovered and captured, however, and needs the characters’ help to escape
from captivity.
Characters can engage in several encounters while cultists and kobolds rampage through Greenest.
For the past several days, you have been traveling a road that winds lazily across the rolling grasslands of the Greenﬁelds. Sundown is approaching when you top a rise and see the
town of Greenest just a few short miles away. But instead of the pleasant, welcoming town you expected, you see columns of black smoke rising from burning buildings, running
ﬁgures that are little more than dots at this distance, and a dark, winged shape wheeling low over the keep that rises above the center of the town. Greenest is being attacked by a
dragon!
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 3/20

The sequence of events that follow is up to you and the characters. You can present them with as many of the encounters as you want, in any order. The only exception
is “Seek the Keep,” which should be the ﬁrst encounter after characters enter Greenest.
General Features
The sun has set by the time characters reach the edge of town (the area shown on the Greenest map).
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 4/20

MAP 1.1: GREENEST
VIEW PLAYER VERSION
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 5/20

Light. Burning buildings and a half moon provide dim light throughout the town. The inside of the keep is brightly illuminated.
Fires. The cultists tried to set buildings ablaze as they moved through town, but thatch isn’t as ﬂammable as it looks. When characters arrive, most of the ﬂames come
from haystacks and barns, not from homes or shops.
The Stream. The stream that ﬂows past Greenest is shallow (seldom more than 3 feet deep) with a gravel bottom, so characters can move along it without diﬃculty.
Where the banks are clear, the stream is easy to get into or out of. Brush by the stream is dense, and the banks are steep where brush grows. Characters can move
only 5 feet per turn through the brush.
Important Characters
Some of the most prominent personalities in Greenest include the following characters:
Governor Nighthill
The man who runs Greenest is Tarbaw Nighthill, a human male of sixty years. If characters ask who’s in charge, they are directed to Nighthill. He is pacing atop the
parapet of the keep when the sky is clear, or inside the keep if the dragon is attacking. If the characters don’t seek out the governor when they reach the keep, he ﬁnds
them. Either way, Nighthill welcomes them and takes them to the parapet. From there, they have the best view of Greenest.
The right side of Nighthill’s face and head are bandaged, his right arm hangs in a sling, and his light blue tunic is stained with his own blood. He received these wounds
during the early stages of the attack and hasn’t spared the time for more than cursory ﬁrst aid.
Castellan Escobert the Red
Escobert is a shield dwarf with knotted, tangled, bright red hair. As master of the keep, Escobert is in charge of its defense and is the best source of information on the
tunnel and the sally port (see “The Old Tunnel” and “The Sally Port” below). He carries an enormous ring of iron and brass keys to the many locks in the keep.
Wandering Encounters
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 6/20

The streets of Greenest are overrun by forces consisting of cultists and acolytes accompanied by monstrous allies: kobolds with ambush drakes (see appendix D) and
giant lizards. These raiders move through town without fear, pillaging as they go. As characters travel through the embattled village, they can run into raiders and
townsfolk. Use these guidelines to determine if characters have an encounter.
If characters use cover and stealth to avoid encounters, have each character attempt a DC 10 Dexterity (Stealth) check. For every two individual checks that fail, the
characters have one encounter on the way to their destination. Roll a d8 on the Chapter 1 Encounters table to determine each encounter. If characters use the stream
bed for cover for most of the trip, these characters have advantage on their Dexterity checks.
If characters don’t use cover and stealth to avoid encounters, roll a d8 for every 100 feet they move in town. If the roll is 4 or lower, they didn’t attract attention with that
move. If the roll is 5 or higher, they run into something; roll a d8 again and check the Chapter 1 Encounters table to see what the characters meet.
Chapter 1 Encounters
d8 Encounter
1 6 kobolds
2 3 kobolds and 1 ambush drake (see appendix D)
3 6 cultists
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 7/20

d8 Encounter
4 4 cultists and 1 guard
5 2 cultists and 1 acolyte*
6 3 guards and 1 acolyte*
7 1d6 townsfolk being hunted by raiders (roll a d6 to determine the raiding group)
8 1d6 townsfolk hiding
* Acolytes have command prepared instead of sanctuary.
Most of the cultists, guards, and acolytes are human. You can include a few dwarves, half-elves, half-orcs, or halﬂings without altering any game statistics.
Seek the Keep
Characters have random encounters with raiders when they enter Greenest, but this one should be their ﬁrst mission of the chapter. It begins when a terriﬁed human
family (father, mother, and three young children) dash across their path, hounded by seven kobolds.
The woman is Linan Swift, and her husband is Cuth. Linan is a commoner but with 8 hit points. Her attack with the spear is +2 to hit for 1d6 piercing damage. Her
husband is down to 2 hit points from an earlier ﬁght. The children move at speed 20. They can be carried, but a character carrying a child has disadvantage on attack
rolls and cannot wield a two-handed weapon.
Without warning, ﬁve humans dash out from between two buildings on your left. A limping man and three young children race across the street into more shadows, and a woman
carrying a round shield and a broken spear turns and faces back in the direction from which they came. Seven kobolds stream out of the alley on the family’s heels and fan out around
the woman, who looks determined to delay the creatures for as long as possible.
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 8/20

Unless characters interfere, the kobolds assume the characters are cultists and ignore them. Assuming characters intervene and save the family, Linan explains that
they must make their way to the keep (area 1); it’s the only safe place in Greenest. The raiders haven’t set up an effective cordon around the keep, so it’s still possible to
move through the front gate—but not for long.
To reach the keep, the characters must make it past three groups of raiders. A group consists of 1d6 kobolds and 1d4 cultists. If the group contains six kobolds, one is
a winged kobold (urd).
Characters can ﬁght these enemies, sneak past them, retreat to avoid them entirely, or try something clever such as bluﬃng. If they ﬁght, run the combat normally.
When enemies must make a check to notice sneaking or bluﬃng, make a check with advantage for the group.
Each time the party retreats from an enemy group, they run into 1d6 more townsfolk headed for the keep. For every four townsfolk in tow, the group must move past
one more enemy group to reach the keep.
At the keep, the characters are the last group through the gate before it is closed and barred. After characters enter the keep, raiders encircle it in increasing numbers.
Rewards
Besides earning experience points (XP) for raiders fought on the way to the keep, characters earn a bonus of 50 XP per nonplayer character (NPC) brought alive into
the keep. Divide this bonus equally among the party members. Alternatively, if you are using the milestone experience rule, the characters reach 2nd level once they
arrive at the keep.
Missions
Events in Greenest are divided into missions. Missions don’t need to involve combat, but most do.
The characters reach the town at sundown, or about 9 p.m. The sun comes up again at 6 a.m. the next morning, but the last of the raiders are gone by 4 a.m.
For time-keeping purposes, assume that each mission takes an hour. Time during the hour that isn’t spent ﬁghting or slipping through town is spent tending gear,
bandaging minor wounds, patrolling the keep’s walls, brieﬁng Nighthill on the situation, and other mundane tasks. If characters take a short rest, they can’t undertake
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 9/20

any other mission that hour.
If players need guidance, Governor Nighthill can give the characters a quick brieﬁng on the tactical situation. The raiders have isolated the keep from the town with
encircling groups of guards, but they haven’t organized an attack. Nighthill thinks the raiders don’t intend to attack the keep; they seem interested only in loot. The real
danger is to the town and to those people who didn’t make it into the keep before it was cut off. Nighthill wants the characters to slip back into the town and help
people who are cut off or harass the raiders. A stealthy group can make it out of the keep and back in again without drawing the raiders’ attention.
The Old Tunnel
A narrow tunnel runs from the cellar beneath the keep to the bank of the stream (area 2). The tunnel is wide enough to allow warriors to pass through it in single ﬁle. In
the keep, the tunnel is sealed with a locked ironbound door, and the stream exit is covered with a locked iron grate made to look like a sewer outlet. The tunnel’s main
function was as a secret means of collecting water from the stream during a siege, but it can double as a sally port. Since the keep has never been besieged, the old
tunnel has never been used. Barrels and crates are piled in front of the door. The keys for the locks are on the ring that Escobert carries with him everywhere.
At some point, Escobert recommends the tunnel as a means of sneaking townsfolk into the keep without running the gauntlet of attackers watching the gates.
Locks
Characters can clear the cellar door with a few minutes’ work. The lock is stiff but opens with the key; without the key, the character can open the lock with a
successful DC 10 Dexterity check and a set of thieves’ tools. The disused tunnel is choked with webs but is otherwise clear. A few yards inside the stream end is a nest
of two swarms of rats. The rats attack when disturbed, and the surviving rats ﬂee when half their number die.
Years of exposure and neglect have corroded the lock on the exit grate. Even with the key, a successful DC 10 Dexterity check is needed to open the lock. Without the
key, the DC increases to 20. If the roll misses by 5 or more, the key or thieves’ tools break off in the lock so that unlocking it becomes impossible. Then only a
successful DC 15 Strength check can force the grate open.
Foes
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 10/20

A group of cultists is searching the stream banks for hiding townsfolk when the characters emerge from the tunnel. If characters open the lock with the key or with
thieves’ tools, the ﬁrst one to exit notices the raiders approaching without being spotted in return; the characters can keep out of sight in the tunnel or try to ambush
the raiders after they pass. If the check fails, the raiders spot the character; roll initiative and proceed with combat. If the grate had to be broken open with a Strength
check, the raiders hear the noise and ﬁnd cover; they wait for the characters to exit the tunnel, then gain a surprise round. The raiders’ group consists of two cultists
and six kobolds. If any cultists are still alive at the beginning of the fourth round of the ﬁght, one of them runs to fetch help. Ten minutes later, two cultists, ten kobolds,
and one ambush drake (see appendix D) arrive to guard the tunnel.
Rewards
Award standard XP for defeated foes. Aside from that, the chief reward for this mission is the tunnel itself. As long as it remains secret, characters can use it to enter
and exit the keep safely. Each time they use the tunnel exit, roll a d6. On a 1, raiders see and attack the characters (use the Chapter 1 Encounters table). On a 2, they are
seen but not attacked. Instead, the raiders set an ambush and attack the next time the characters return to the tunnel exit.
The Sally Port
The keep has a sally port along the west wall for counterattacking foes who bring a battering ram against the gates. During the night while characters are in the keep,
raiders approach the old gate, force it open, and rush through. Escobert discovers them and races into the courtyard to sound the alarm ahead of the inﬁltrators.
Enough defenders are available to deal with the immediate threat from raiders loose in the keep, since it’s more a probe that got out of hand rather than a full-scale
assault. Escobert is most concerned about resealing the sally port, and he seeks out the characters for that job.
To secure the sally port, characters must battle through two groups of foes. The ﬁrst ﬁght occurs against three acolytes, three kobolds, and one ambush drake (see
appendix D), which are guarding the sally port’s 10-foot-by-20-foot ready room against exactly this type of counterattack. After characters seize the room, they discover
that the door is heavily damaged. The fastest repair is with ﬁve castings of mending (taking 5 minutes). If none of the characters can do this, an NPC in the keep
knows the cantrip. Someone must ﬁnd and fetch her to the ready room.
Before the door can be repaired, a second group of raiders consisting of two guards, three cultists, and three kobolds attacks. These foes can come from outside the
keep, or they might be a group of inﬁltrators trying to ﬁght its way back outside. If characters barricade the door with barrels or other heavy objects while awaiting
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 11/20

repairs, they might hold off attackers until the repairs are ﬁnished and avoid this ﬁght entirely.
Rewards
Award standard XP for defeated foes.
Dragon Attack
The adult blue dragon Lennithon accompanied this raid but is not an enthusiastic participant. His chief contribution has been his Frightful Presence, but that becomes
less effective as the night wears on and defenders overcome their fear. Shortly before midnight, the dragon launches a ﬁnal assault against the citadel. Frulam
Mondath orders the attack, knowing that the adventurers are in the keep at the time. Lennithon doesn’t consider this to be his ﬁght, and he isn’t keen on tangling with
adventurers for another’s beneﬁt.
During this attack, Lennithon ﬂies over the keep and uses his breath weapon without moving closer than 25 feet from the parapet. The defenders on the walls have
mastered their fear of the dragon’s Frightful Presence from earlier attacks. There are twenty NPC defenders on the walls at the beginning of the mission, and more can
arrive between attacks to take the place of those who fall. The dragon doesn’t target the adventures at ﬁrst, and every breath attack not directed at them kills 1d4 NPC
defenders and injures 1d6 more. Adventurers who happen to get caught in the area make normal saving throws and take standard damage. The NPCs’ attacks are
ineffective against Lennithon. Bear in mind that the dragon’s breath weapon will kill a 1st-level character outright, so be sure to demonstrate its destructive power to
the players before turning the dragon against the party.
After each attack, Lennithon swoops away until his breath weapon recharges, then swings in for another attack. He repeats this pattern until he has taken 24 damage
or more, or a single critical hit. After that happens, Lennithon leaves for good.
Rewards
Characters earn 50 XP each for driving away Lennithon, but reduce that award to 25 XP if 10 or more defenders were killed during the attack. For their role in driving off
the dragon, the characters receive four potions of healing from the grateful Governor Nighthill.
Prisoners
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 12/20

Governor Nighthill would like to interrogate some of the raiders.
If the characters haven’t run into any cult leaders yet, Nighthill takes them onto the parapet and points out what he means. This is an ideal time for everyone to catch a
glimpse of Frulam Mondath (see appendix D) in her purple robes, accompanied by a dozen guards. Even the governor cautions characters against attacking such a
formidable force, especially when any lower-level oﬃcer can answer his questions.
Leaving the keep through the front gate is out of the question—too many raiders watch it. Other options are waiting for a cloud to cover the moon before climbing
down ropes tossed over the back wall of the keep, or using the old tunnel that exits into the stream bed.
This mission can be combined with another mission, such as saving the mill or rescuing villagers from the temple of Chauntea. All characters need to do is bring a live
cultist or Cult of the Dragon initiate back to the keep. Or characters can go into the town hunting for one speciﬁcally.
Prisoners brought back to the keep are interrogated by Governor Nighthill and a few of his picked guards. Characters can participate if they want to.
Captured kobolds are terriﬁed; they say whatever they think the questioner wants to hear. They know that they’re working for the Cult of the Dragon and for the
“dragon lady” (Rezmir), and that they’re after loot.
Captured mercenaries or bandits talk freely; they have no special loyalty to the Cult of the Dragon. They reveal that they’ve been raiding communities around the
Greenﬁelds for loot, and they’ve heard rumors in the camp about dragon eggs.
Cultists and initiates are the most tight-lipped. A successful DC 10 Charisma (Intimidation) or DC 12 Charisma (Persuasion) check is needed to cause cultists
to reveal that they are members of the Cult of the Dragon and that they are collecting loot “for the great hoard that will usher in the reign of the Queen of
Dragons.” They know that the cult has a clutch of dragon eggs under heavy guard in a cave at the camp.
Rewards
“I’d give anything to know what we’re up against, and why. For that, we need prisoners. A commander, even a low-ranking one, is best.”
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 13/20

If characters capture a prisoner, award each of them 25 XP. To collect that award, the prisoner must be brought to the governor. Interrogating the prisoner
independently and bringing the information to the governor doesn’t count. The characters also receive standard XP for any monsters they defeat along the way.
Save the Mill
From the parapet of the keep, someone spots a group of raiders trying to set ﬁre to the town mill (area 4). Governor Nighthill quickly approaches the adventurers.
The mill is about 500 feet from the keep. The distance is doubled if characters use the secret tunnel and follow the stream to stay hidden.
Roll a d6 on the Chapter 1 Encounters table to determine the strength of the raiders that are trying to set ﬁre to the mill. Any kobolds in this force run away as soon as
two or more raiders are killed. If characters observe the mill for a minute or more before attacking, allow them to attempt DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) or Charisma
(Performance) checks. If successful, a character realizes that the raiders are making a demonstration of starting a ﬁre, but it’s for show. A few ﬁres are burning around
the building, but they could be extinguished easily.
This act of burning the mill is a ruse. Mondath has been informed that heroes are aiding the town, and she wants to lure them into an ambush. More raiders—one
cultist and one guard per character—are hiding inside the mill, waiting for the characters to show up.
The mill is a simple rectangular barn, about 40 feet long and 20 feet wide, with an attached, exterior oﬃce. The long side of the building away from the stream has barn
doors and a two-part door, and the two short walls have windows. All these openings are closed, but none are locked or barred. Inside, the main ﬂoor is dominated by a
massive stone grinding wheel driven by a water wheel in the stream. The mill was operating late when the raid began and the millers ﬂed without disengaging the
wheel, so it still turns noisily. The upper half of the barn is a loft where milled ﬂour is stored. The loft can be reached by wooden stairs along the east wall or by using
the ropes and pulleys that hoist bags of ﬂour up and down through large openings in the loft ﬂoor.
“The guards have spotted a new threat. Raiders are trying to set ﬁre to the town’s mill. If it burns, we’ll lose our stockpile of ﬂour and we won’t be able to grind more for months. I’m
trying to assemble enough defenders from here in the keep to defend it through the rest of the night, but that will take time. You’d do us a great service if you could get to the mill
quickly and drive away the raiders before they can set it aﬂame. You’ll need to defend it until our force arrives to take over, but it shouldn’t be more than ﬁfteen minutes behind you.”
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 14/20

The ambushers are waiting in the loft for heroes to enter the mill. When the heroes are inside, the guards launch a volley of spears from above, then leap down to ﬁght
hand-to-hand. The ambushers have a good chance to gain a surprise round for their spear volley; a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check is needed to notice
them before the attack. Characters who scan the loft for hidden enemies upon entering the mill have advantage on the check.
Ten minutes after the second ﬁght ends, a dozen bloody but basically healthy defenders arrive from the keep with orders to relieve the characters and defend the mill.
They tell the characters to go back to the keep quietly while they remain behind at the mill.
Rewards
Award standard XP for defeated foes. If characters realized they were walking into a trap, give each a 50 XP bonus. If they didn’t deduce that it was a trap but spotted
the ambushers in time to prevent a surprise round, give each character a 25 XP bonus.
Sanctuary
Dozens of townsfolk have barricaded themselves inside the temple to Chauntea (area 3), which is surrounded by raiders. The attackers tried setting ﬁre to the stout
structure but had little success. Now they’ve deployed an improvised battering ram. It’s only a matter of time, possibly minutes, before the temple’s main doors
crumple under the assault, leaving the people inside helpless.
The temple is a large building, made of ﬁeldstone with a peaked slate roof, and square in shape. It is taller than most other buildings in town. Inside, the altar occupies
the middle of the temple, with other worship areas arranged around it.
Foes
The force outside the temple is split into three groups. One (A) is battering at the front doors, another (B) is circling the temple in a screeching mob, and the third (C) is
heaping burning straw against a rear door. All these groups together would overwhelm 1st-level characters, but characters can devise a plan that gets them inside the
temple by dealing with one group.
Group A consists of one dragonclaw (see appendix D), two cultists, and six kobolds. The cultists are handling the ram while the kobolds stand guard in case the town
militia mounts a counterattack. The dragonclaw is in charge. The kobold guards are alert, but they are distracted when Group B passes in front of the temple.
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 15/20

Group B consists of three cultists, ten kobolds, and two ambush drakes (see appendix D) strung out in a mob that stretches 50 feet. This procession with leaping and
whirling kobolds completes one circuit around the temple approximately every eight minutes (two minutes per side).
Group C consists of four cultists and four kobolds clustered tightly around the temple’s back door. Their meager ﬁre produces little ﬂame, instead creating prodigious
clouds of thick smoke that engulf the back of the temple and blanket the surrounding 30 feet of ground. Everything in the smoke is lightly obscured, and objects or
creatures that are seen through more than 15 feet of smoke are heavily obscured. Characters can sneak up on these raiders and gain a surprise round against them, as
long as they avoid Group B in the process.
Arranging a Rescue
The heroes’ best shot at rescuing the townsfolk is to overpower Group C and take control of the back door. In the temple, they can arrange a distraction to keep Groups
A and B occupied at the front while the citizens of Greenest slip out the back and race for the keep or for the old tunnel—if characters have opened it already. That’s
only one possibility; clever players can come up with different solutions.
The townsfolk in the temple are near panic, however, and they won’t take orders from strangers unless someone makes a successful DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion)
check. Otherwise, characters need to locate the priest of Chauntea, Eadyan Falconmoon, a level-headed half-elf. He’s easy to spot, being the only calm person they can
ﬁnd in the temple, and he is elated to see them. He looks to the characters for a plan.
Time is pressing. While characters are inside the temple, remind them of the booming blows of the battering ram against the front doors and the frightened townsfolk.
How much time you allow before the doors burst open depends on your group. What’s important is that players feel pressed.
To create a sense of pressure, give the front doors 30 hit points and let each thud of the battering ram deal 1d6 bludgeoning damage. When the doors reach 20 hit
points, they have cracks large enough to see through. At 10 hit points, the doors sag in their hinges. At 5, they could collapse at the next impact. How frequently you roll
the die is up to you! One roll every 15–20 seconds is a good target for an average group. Be ﬂexible, judge the players’ level of tension, and don’t let anyone relax.
If the doors burst open before the temple is evacuated, this scene turns into an ugly melee against Group A. The kobolds in that group prefer to attack unarmed
villagers instead of lethal adventurers. Each kobold automatically kills one villager each round unless characters attack the kobolds, cut them off from their victims, or
interfere some other way. If townsfolk have already evacuated the temple through the back door, or that process is well along before the front doors split apart under
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 16/20

the ram, then characters can conduct a ﬁghting withdrawal through the temple. After everyone gets into the smoke outside, they can close and brace the back door,
then sprint for the keep or the tunnel in the stream bank with enough of a head start to get away safely.
Rewards
Rescuing people from the temple earns each character 100 XP in addition to the points for killing monsters. If more than ten villagers died during the rescue, reduce
that award to 50 XP.
Half-Dragon Champion
Before all the raiders depart, their champion challenges the town’s best warrior.
The speaker is Langdedrosa Cyanwrath (see appendix D for statistics), a half-blue dragon who serves the Cult of the Dragon. Cyanwrath has a personal troop of
sixteen kobolds. A character who makes a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) or Intelligence (Nature) check recognizes the creature as a half-dragon.
One of the defenders in the keep, Sergeant Markguth, recognizes the prisoners as his sister and her children, and he is ready to rush out into battle with the half-
dragon. Escobert the Red and a few other defenders restrain him while Nighthill approaches the characters.
From the darkness, a creature strides into the dim light of the dying ﬁres around the keep. Although it is shaped roughly like a human, it is at least seven feet tall, its skin is covered in
blue scales, its ﬁngers bear wicked claws, and its face has the muzzle and reptilian eyes of a dragon. The creature stops about eighty yards from the main gate of the keep and scans
the walls. A line of kobolds fans out behind it. With their spears, they prod four human prisoners into the dim light. You can make out a woman, a teenage boy in a blood-soaked tunic,
and two children. Then the half-dragon creature hails the keep.
“Defenders of Greenest! This has been a successful night, and I am feeling generous. Do you see these four pitiful, useless prisoners? We have no need for them, so I will trade them
back to you. Send out your best warrior to ﬁght me, and you can have these four in exchange.”
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 17/20

If no one steps forward, Nighthill is disappointed but says he understands, and their refusal in no way diminishes what they’ve done so far. In that case, the woman’s
brother goes out to face the half-dragon. He is a human guard. Select one of the players to control Sergeant Markguth for this ﬁght or just narrate its result.
Cyanwrath is pleased to see a champion step forward. He agrees to these terms for the combat: The three children will be set loose immediately, but his kobolds will
continue to stand guard over the woman, and they will kill her if anyone interferes in the ﬁght—for example, if archers in the keep let ﬂy at him. Regardless of who wins,
the woman will be released when the ﬁght is over; and the victor will be the last one standing.
Governor Nighthill holds his troops in the keep during the combat. Adventurers can go out if they want, but the half-dragon insists that they keep their distance and stay
between him and the fortress. If characters try to surround him or to edge into position for an ambush, he warns them that his kobolds won’t hesitate to kill the
hostages if they see signs of treachery. The half-dragon is evil, but he has a deep sense of honor about one-on-one combat. He doesn’t intend any shenanigans, and he
won’t allow any from his kobolds.
Cyanwrath is the likely winner of this match, whether he’s ﬁghting Sergeant Markguth or a character. When his foe drops, he strikes one more time; the last blow kills
Markguth or inﬂicts one death roll failure on a character. If Cyanwrath loses the ﬁght, the kobolds immediately jump in to protect his body and carry it away. (Cyanwrath
will recover from his wounds and be encountered again later.) If by some mischance Cyanwrath is killed or captured, his place in the dragon hatchery (chapter 3) is
taken by another half-dragon.
With the ﬁght over, the last of the raiders retreat en masse from the town into the darkness, marching away toward the southeast.
Rewards
If a character steps up to the challenge and ﬁghts Cyanwrath, each party member earns 50 XP. If not, characters receive nothing for this encounter. A team of healers
with healer’s kits and +4 bonuses to Wisdom (Medicine) checks attend to the wounded or dying character, and Governor Nighthill gratefully offers two potions of
healing to the wounded character. If characters do something that costs the life of a hostage, Governor Nighthill is furious with them and offers no more help.
“My friends, you’ve demonstrated your prowess all through this frightful night. I realize this is an awful burden to ask you to bear, but any of you has a better chance to defeat that
horror than my militia have.”
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 18/20

Our Terms of Service and Privacy Notice have recently been updated to provide greater clarity as to how disputes are handled and transparency regarding the
collection and use of personal data. Please review them here: Terms of Service, Privacy Notice. By continuing to use the services, you agree to the new Terms.
SUPPORT
Help Portal
Support Forum
System Status
Do Not Sell or Share My
Personal Information
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Notice
System Reference Document
(SRD)
ABOUT
Contact Us
Careers
Wizards of the Coast
FIND US ON SOCIAL MEDIA
 DOWNLOAD THE D&D BEYOND APP
© 2017-2026 WIZARDS OF THE COAST LLC | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Dungeons & Dragons, D&D Beyond, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, the dragon ampersand, and all other Wizards of the Coast product names, campaign settings,
their respective logos, and The World's Greatest Roleplaying Game are © and trademark Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. © 2026
PRIVACY POLICY TERMS OF SERVICE
Developments
It’s assumed that when characters ﬁrst see the ﬁghting in Greenest, they will rush to its defense. If they don’t, and they’re traveling with others, then the NPCs they’re
traveling with suggest that an immediate attack might turn the tide or at least save many lives. If characters still sit out this ﬁght, they see about half of the attackers
leave around midnight, with the rest retiring in small groups over the next few hours. When the sun comes up, even a quick inspection shows that over half of the
buildings are heavily damaged and much of the town’s wealth was carried away. Hundreds of injured people are crowded into the keep or are found hiding in cellars,
but most of them will survive.
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 19/20

Wizards.
24/03/2026, 08:39 Greenest in Flames - Tyranny of Dragons - Dungeons & Dragons - Sources - D&D Beyond
https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dnd/tod/greenest-in-flames 20/20